`4.0.1 (2017-02-14) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/4.0.1>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Cleanup of reflection freezing <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/851>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The reflection freezing process still used a removed method from packages,
this has been refactored as the information needed is already available and
just needed to be cached.

Additionally a bit of clean up was done while looking at it.

Fixes: #743

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Use request correctly in Fluid Views <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/852>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The refactoring of Fluid to the Adaptor left some places with invalid handling
of request and format inside of Views. The code couldn't work in it's current
state and is now adapted.

Fixes: #848

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: ClassLoader should load AvailableProxies from TEMPORARY_BASE <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/867>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have an old version of the AvailableProxyClasses in FLOW_PATH_DATA
and you change FLOW_PATH_TEMPORARY_BASE, always the old proxy classes
get loaded.

Resolves: #866

`BUGFIX: Proxy Compiler adds newline after end of original code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/854>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As any original class might end on a comment line without newline we need to
add a newline as part of the proxy building to avoid putting the proxy
namespace declaration within a comment. Additionally adds a marker comment
declaring the beginning of the proxy code.

Fixes: #779

`BUGFIX: Use \`\`exec\`\` everywhere instead of \`\`system\`\` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/856>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of using both, the Flow core uses the ``exec`` function throughout
now and the requirements documentation is updated accordingly.

Fixes: #634

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Peg generated parsers are excluded from proxy building <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/853>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The generated parsers ``AbstractParser``, ``EelParser`` and ``FizzleParser``
are excluded from proxy building as the include statement and the general
structure of these make them unsuitable for proxy-ing. This was only a bug
before if an AOP advice targeted the mentioned classes, now this cannot
happen anymore.

Fixes: #796

`BUGFIX: Documented correct implementation of condition ViewHelpers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/855>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the introduction of standalone Fluid the correct way to implement
custom condition ViewHelpers has changed but this was not reflected in
the doc block of the ``AbstractConditionViewHelper``. This change finally
adds the missing explanation.

Fixes: #746

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Resource setSha1() fails on uppercase hash <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/865>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes an issue with the Resource object's
`setSha1()` method which fails if the given hexadecimal
number uses uppercase characters for A-F.

On some operating systems or third party services,
uppercase hashes may be used. `setSha1()` now accepts
values containing uppercase characters and normalizes
them to lowercase. Therefore, when you set a SHA1
with an uppercase hexadecimal string, `getSha1()`
will return it in lowercase.

Related to https://github.com/flownative/flow-google-cloudstorage/issues/4

`BUGFIX: Add documentation about package types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/862>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a note about the package type prefixes support.

Fixes: #503

`BUGFIX: \`\`ReflectionService::getClassSchema\`\` works with Proxies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/860>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Getting a class schema from the reflection service should work
when giving a doctrine proxy object instead of the actual entity.

Fixes: #561

`TASK: Fix version in Flows Documentation/conf.py <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/861>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Allow factories to build prototypes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/850>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fix allowes to build prototypes using factories by configuring
`scope: prototype` in the Objects.yaml
Before the object manager ignores the configuration and generates singletons everytime.

`TASK: Pin utility versions to 3.3 branch releases <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/846>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Avoid installing breaking versions of the utilities in Flow 3.3.

* Packages: ``Arrays`` ``Lock``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/4.0.0...4.0.1>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
