`4.0.3 (2017-04-01) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/4.0.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Add missing model annotation in documentation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/642>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Without this annotation it will not be possible to generate doctrine
  migration.

`TASK: Adjust DocTools settings <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/919>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes neos/neos-development-collection#1490

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Adjust typeconverter:list to getTypeConverters() return value <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/908>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes #828

`TASK: Remove unused classes and exceptions <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/909>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These classes became useless with the release of 4.0 but were
overlooked and forgotten.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix "undefined class" warnings <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/906>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mostly fixes comments, but some use statements as well.

`BUGFIX: Use correct branch in .travis.yml <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/907>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`BUGFIX: Update docs to code changes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/905>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``PersistentResource`` no longer provides a ``__toString()``, so adjust
documentation to that.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove PhpUnit 4.8 support code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/902>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We no longer support PhpUnit 4.8 so some code could be removed.

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix 4.0 composer manifests <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/898>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A number of inconsistencies and errors are in the composer manifests of the 4.0 branch:

- some libraries pinned to strictly 4.0.0
- outdated/wrong names and namespaces in merged collection manifest
- inconsistent dependencies on PHP
- inconsistent dependencies on PhpUnit

The first is an actual bug, since even with 4.0.2 of Flow, those packages are pinned to
the 4.0.0 version, even though it should be 4.0.2.

While the last two might in fact be correct, the merged manifest is prone to containing
wrong constraints, so this change sync the related constraints with the Flow package
itself.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Accessing in empty array in PropertyMapper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/895>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As ``$this->typeConverters`` is not filled during this method, as this method will provide the necessary information, we need to access ``$typeConverterMap`` which contains the class name already.

**What I did**
Fix accessing empty array.

**How I did it**
Accessing method internal existing array containing the necessary information.

**How to verify it**
Register two TypeConverters for same conersion with same priority.

**Checklist**

- [x] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [ ] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)
I could not find any information about Flow at the given url.

`TASK: Add documentation for using PdoBackend with MySQL <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/885>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the PdoBackend with MySQL for caching,
the needed caching tables have to be created manually.
This adds a hint on creating the tables to the documentation
on the PdoBackend.

Solving the documentation part of neos/flow-development-collection#884

This depends on #886 

`TASK: Increase max-length for cache entries in PdoBackend <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/886>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When not using SQLite for the `PdoBackend` and manually creating
the cache tables by using the `DDL.sql`, the content column of the
cache table with type `TEXT` could easily lead to cropped
caching entries because of the length restriction.
Using `MEDIUMTEXT` practically prevents this issue.

See also: neos/flow-development-collection#884 and
neos/flow-development-collection#885

`TASK: Improve documentation on Object-OrientedProgramming <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/887>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Two small typo
1. doubled «is is» to «it is»
2. doubled «our our» to «our»

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/4.0.2...4.0.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
