`4.0.6 (2017-04-12) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/4.0.6>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Correctly document usage of \`\`...cookie.domain\`\` setting <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/933>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The cookie domain was allowed to be set with a leading dot to signal
that it should be valid for all subdomains. This was later changed in
the current RFC 6265. Our ``Session`` implementation checks for domains
without leading dot, while the comment suggested to use it. This is now
matched.

Fixes: neos/neos-development-collection#813

`BUGFIX: Injected configuration should also be ignored in class schema <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/931>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Injected properties were always ignored in the persistence class schema as
it makes no sense to persist injected properties. Same is obviously true for
injected configuration, but this was never done so this change ignores
properties with a ``InjectConfiguration`` annotation.

This may be breaking if you use ``InjectConfiguration`` on a property that you
actually want to persist (which is not a good idea anyway). You would need to
add another property with the inject annotation and pass the value over to the
persisted property in ``initializeObject`` for example.

`TASK: throw InvalidConfigurationException if there are no secondLevelCache settings for doctrine <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/928>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#When using more than one doctrine backend, you have to make sure to set TYPO3.Flow.persistence.doctrine.secondLevelCache, or else you will get "An error occurred in the Database Abstraction Layer." as an exception which doesn't tell you much. By throwing an approriate exception we make clearer what the problem is.

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/4.0.4...4.0.6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
