`4.1.0 (2017-04-27) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/4.1.0>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Add release notes for 4.0.0 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/943>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TODO:
- [x] Fix formatting
- [ ] Rephrase some too technical descriptions

Related to #869

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add changelog for 4.0.0 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/942>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Improve validation documentation to avoid infinite loops <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/957>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The case that a form displaying action is not annotated to ignore validation of domain models
leads to infinite dispatch loops when validation fails. This was not documented well enough.

This change adds an explicit section inside the Validation documentation about this scenario.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove usage of deprecated \`\`Yaml::parse\`\` with file path <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/949>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The symfony yaml parser deprecated handing in a file path and
instead expects the yaml content as string. As that is the same
behavior as for the PHP YAML extension the code was adapted to
read the file in all cases and pass the content to the respective
parser.

Fixes: #824

`TASK: Fix link to support page <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/952>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related #940

`TASK: Add release notes for 4.1 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/941>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes #917 

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update Readme.rst and Upgrading.rst for 4.1 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/939>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update badges to 4.1 branch <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/938>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: really fix wrong namespace after merge <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/937>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to `35a02528d8aec53f0769a9f16c3dabbca690fbf8 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/35a02528d8aec53f0769a9f16c3dabbca690fbf8>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow more flexible Doctrine Entity Manager configuration <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/462>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently, we need to add new Configuration Settings for every feature of Doctrine that
is configurable through the Entity Manager.

This change adds a signal that triggers before the Doctrine Entity Manager is configured to
allow changing configuration settings of Doctrine programmatically.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Attempt reconnect only if EntityManager is open <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/921>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a `\\Doctrine\\DBAL\\DBALException` is thrown in `persistAll()`, a reconnect will be attempted,
but only if `EntityManager->isOpen()` returns true. Otherwise the exception is re-thrown.

Before the connection to the server was sometimes never re-established, since only the specific
Flow\\Error\\Exception was caught.

Also this will prevent hiding exceptions that result in a closed EntityManager.

Fixes #870

`BUGFIX: Fix support for PHP 7.1 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/936>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With PHP 7.1 the behavior of `file_get_contents()` has been changed
allowing negative offsets to be specified.

This change adjusts the signature of `TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Files::getFileContents()`
accordingly.

*Note:* This is a backport of #821 which has only been applied to the 4.0 branch

Fixes: neos/neos-development-collection#1301, #847

* Packages: ``Files``

`TASK: Use generateRandomString() instead of uniqid() <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/935>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reduces the risk of collision on temporary filenames and other
identifiers and data.

`BUGFIX: Correctly document usage of \`\`...cookie.domain\`\` setting <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/933>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The cookie domain was allowed to be set with a leading dot to signal
that it should be valid for all subdomains. This was later changed in
the current RFC 6265. Our ``Session`` implementation checks for domains
without leading dot, while the comment suggested to use it. This is now
matched.

Fixes: neos/neos-development-collection#813

`BUGFIX: Injected configuration should also be ignored in class schema <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/931>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Injected properties were always ignored in the persistence class schema as
it makes no sense to persist injected properties. Same is obviously true for
injected configuration, but this was never done so this change ignores
properties with a ``InjectConfiguration`` annotation.

This may be breaking if you use ``InjectConfiguration`` on a property that you
actually want to persist (which is not a good idea anyway). You would need to
add another property with the inject annotation and pass the value over to the
persisted property in ``initializeObject`` for example.

`TASK: throw InvalidConfigurationException if there are no secondLevelCache settings for doctrine <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/928>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#When using more than one doctrine backend, you have to make sure to set TYPO3.Flow.persistence.doctrine.secondLevelCache, or else you will get "An error occurred in the Database Abstraction Layer." as an exception which doesn't tell you much. By throwing an approriate exception we make clearer what the problem is.

`BUGFIX: Fix test merged without adjustments <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/923>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Webserver group membership is checked in setfilepermissions <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/803>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

File permission script checks that the command line user is a member of the webserver group

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add wordCount Eel Helper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/864>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Return number of words in a string. Good for calculation of reading duration of an article

* Packages: ``Eel``

`TASK: Add missing model annotation in documentation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/642>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Without this annotation it will not be possible to generate doctrine
  migration.

`FEATURE: Add kickstarter command to create basic XLIFF translation files <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/914>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a command for creating initial XLIFF translation files.

Call `./flow kickstart:translation --package-key Neos.Demo --language-key de` and check the created folders and files at `Packages/Sites/Neos.Demo/Resources/Private/Translations`.

Fixes #880 

* Packages: ``Kickstarter``

`TASK: Declare transitive dependencies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/916>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additionally move an Object configuration to the right place.

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Eel`` ``Files`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor`` ``Kickstarter`` ``Lock`` ``MediaTypes`` ``ObjectHandling`` ``Pdo``

`TASK: Adjust DocTools settings <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/919>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes neos/neos-development-collection#1490

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove requireAutoloaderForPhpUnit() from Booting\\Scripts <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/915>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is legacy code in such a bad way...

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Adjust typeconverter:list to getTypeConverters() return value <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/908>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes #828

`TASK: Remove unused classes and exceptions <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/909>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These classes became useless with the release of 4.0 but were
overlooked and forgotten.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Add missing InvalidResourceDataException <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/911>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Add rescanPackages() to PackageManagerInterface <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/910>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This was originally scheduled for 4.0 but forgotten. It is added now,
excuse the inconvenience. But you should really not be implementing
your own PackageManager.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix "undefined class" warnings <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/906>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mostly fixes comments, but some use statements as well.

`BUGFIX: Use correct branch in .travis.yml <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/907>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`BUGFIX: Update docs to code changes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/905>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``PersistentResource`` no longer provides a ``__toString()``, so adjust
documentation to that.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Use PhpUnit 6 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/903>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Remove PhpUnit 4.8 support code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/902>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We no longer support PhpUnit 4.8 so some code could be removed.

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: No longer require 4.0 in master branch <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/901>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This allows installation of the master branch again with the base
distribution.

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor`` ``Kickstarter``

`BUGFIX: Fix 4.0 composer manifests <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/898>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A number of inconsistencies and errors are in the composer manifests of the 4.0 branch:

- some libraries pinned to strictly 4.0.0
- outdated/wrong names and namespaces in merged collection manifest
- inconsistent dependencies on PHP
- inconsistent dependencies on PhpUnit

The first is an actual bug, since even with 4.0.2 of Flow, those packages are pinned to
the 4.0.0 version, even though it should be 4.0.2.

While the last two might in fact be correct, the merged manifest is prone to containing
wrong constraints, so this change sync the related constraints with the Flow package
itself.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Accessing in empty array in PropertyMapper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/895>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As ``$this->typeConverters`` is not filled during this method, as this method will provide the necessary information, we need to access ``$typeConverterMap`` which contains the class name already.

**What I did**
Fix accessing empty array.

**How I did it**
Accessing method internal existing array containing the necessary information.

**How to verify it**
Register two TypeConverters for same conersion with same priority.

**Checklist**

- [x] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [ ] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)
I could not find any information about Flow at the given url.

`TASK: Add documentation for using PdoBackend with MySQL <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/885>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the PdoBackend with MySQL for caching,
the needed caching tables have to be created manually.
This adds a hint on creating the tables to the documentation
on the PdoBackend.

Solving the documentation part of neos/flow-development-collection#884

This depends on #886 

`TASK: Increase max-length for cache entries in PdoBackend <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/886>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When not using SQLite for the `PdoBackend` and manually creating
the cache tables by using the `DDL.sql`, the content column of the
cache table with type `TEXT` could easily lead to cropped
caching entries because of the length restriction.
Using `MEDIUMTEXT` practically prevents this issue.

See also: neos/flow-development-collection#884 and
neos/flow-development-collection#885

`TASK: Improve documentation on Object-OrientedProgramming <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/887>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Two small typo
1. doubled «is is» to «it is»
2. doubled «our our» to «our»

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Skip unknown properties for ObjectConverter <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/883>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change enables the ObjectConverter (for simple PHP objects)
to acknowledge the `skipUnknownProperties` flag of the property
mapping configuration and thus ignore properties from the source
which don't exist in the target.

If a source array contains properties "foo" and "bar" and the
target class constructor only contains "foo", the array can now
be mapped if `skipUnknownProperties` is set in the respective
property mapping configuration.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Automatic fluid namespace work with PSR-4 autoload paths <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/882>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the way the namespace to ViewHelpers in packages was constructed
it resulted in rather strange errors trying to use one of the automatically
prepared namespaces in a template.
The namespaces are now constructed accordingly depending on the autoload type.

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Fix changelog and release note rendering <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/881>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a few places and adjusts some files so the 4.0 branch has proper 
release notes and changelog rendering.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Consider accounts with \`\`expirationDate\`\` in the future as active <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/875>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

I fixed ``Account::isActive()`` behavior when an expirationDate is set.

**How I did it**

The "Now" injection is now non-lazy, thus the comparison of DateTime objects works.

**How to verify it**

Run the new functional test ``TYPO3.Flow/Tests/Functional/Security/AccountTest.php``

**Checklist**

- [x] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [x] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

Fixes #873

`TASK: Correct Flow Quickstart docs <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/878>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

fix some typos in `updateAction` chapter

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Cleanup of reflection freezing <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/851>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The reflection freezing process still used a removed method from packages,
this has been refactored as the information needed is already available and
just needed to be cached.

Additionally a bit of clean up was done while looking at it.

Fixes: #743

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Improve and fix type conversion <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/407>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a bug when converting from array to `Resource`, base64-encoded data is
now decoded as it should be.

On top when converting to array, the there are now the properties `collectionName`, `relativePublicationPath`, `mediaType` and `sha1` contained in the resulting array.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Improve exception message for AccessDeny interceptor <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/859>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a custom Interceptor implementation for CSRF protection errors making
it easier to debug such errors.

Fixes: #531
Fixes: #660

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Use request correctly in Fluid Views <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/852>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The refactoring of Fluid to the Adaptor left some places with invalid handling
of request and format inside of Views. The code couldn't work in it's current
state and is now adapted.

Fixes: #848

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: ClassLoader should load AvailableProxies from TEMPORARY_BASE <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/867>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have an old version of the AvailableProxyClasses in FLOW_PATH_DATA
and you change FLOW_PATH_TEMPORARY_BASE, always the old proxy classes
get loaded.

Resolves: #866

`BUGFIX: Proxy Compiler adds newline after end of original code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/854>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As any original class might end on a comment line without newline we need to
add a newline as part of the proxy building to avoid putting the proxy
namespace declaration within a comment. Additionally adds a marker comment
declaring the beginning of the proxy code.

Fixes: #779

`BUGFIX: Use \`\`exec\`\` everywhere instead of \`\`system\`\` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/856>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of using both, the Flow core uses the ``exec`` function throughout
now and the requirements documentation is updated accordingly.

Fixes: #634

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Peg generated parsers are excluded from proxy building <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/853>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The generated parsers ``AbstractParser``, ``EelParser`` and ``FizzleParser``
are excluded from proxy building as the include statement and the general
structure of these make them unsuitable for proxy-ing. This was only a bug
before if an AOP advice targeted the mentioned classes, now this cannot
happen anymore.

Fixes: #796

`BUGFIX: Documented correct implementation of condition ViewHelpers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/855>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the introduction of standalone Fluid the correct way to implement
custom condition ViewHelpers has changed but this was not reflected in
the doc block of the ``AbstractConditionViewHelper``. This change finally
adds the missing explanation.

Fixes: #746

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Resource setSha1() fails on uppercase hash <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/865>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes an issue with the Resource object's
`setSha1()` method which fails if the given hexadecimal
number uses uppercase characters for A-F.

On some operating systems or third party services,
uppercase hashes may be used. `setSha1()` now accepts
values containing uppercase characters and normalizes
them to lowercase. Therefore, when you set a SHA1
with an uppercase hexadecimal string, `getSha1()`
will return it in lowercase.

Related to https://github.com/flownative/flow-google-cloudstorage/issues/4

`BUGFIX: Add documentation about package types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/862>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a note about the package type prefixes support.

Fixes: #503

`TASK: Prevent generating migrations if new migrations available <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/857>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is generally undesired to create migrations if there are still migrations
that could be migrated. This is now prevented in the command controller
unless the ``force`` argument is set to circumvent this security measure.

Fixes: #478

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: \`\`ReflectionService::getClassSchema\`\` works with Proxies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/860>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Getting a class schema from the reflection service should work
when giving a doctrine proxy object instead of the actual entity.

Fixes: #561

`TASK: Fix version in Flows Documentation/conf.py <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/861>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Allow factories to build prototypes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/850>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fix allowes to build prototypes using factories by configuring
`scope: prototype` in the Objects.yaml
Before the object manager ignores the configuration and generates singletons everytime.

`TASK: Pin utility versions to 3.3 branch releases <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/846>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Avoid installing breaking versions of the utilities in Flow 3.3.

* Packages: ``Arrays`` ``Lock``

`TASK: Fix a small typo in github issue template <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/829>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

That one's really easy.

* Packages: ``github``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/4.0.0...4.1.0>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
