`4.1.10 (2017-12-14) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/4.1.10>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: No longer pick up too much YAML in migration <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1111>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The migration to adjust Role persistence reads YAML files to learn
about existing roles. It picked up "too much" sometimes, which would
lead to errors, e.g. if some YAML could not be parsed but was not at
all relevant for the task.

This change makes the check on the path of found files stricter to
avoid that.

`TASK: Adjust Flow to work with PHP 7.2 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1136>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This enables PHP 7.2 testing on Travis CI, fixes a few unit tests that broke and adjust one actual code error.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix VariableFrontendTest when using igbinary <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1135>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Debugger must not count uncountable <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1134>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a warning in PHP 7.2

`BUGFIX: Get current request for \`\`StandaloneView\`\` from \`\`RequestHandler\`\` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1113>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If no request is passed to a freshly created ``StandaloneView`` it is now retrieved from the  ``RequestHandler`` instead of the old method which called ``createFromEnvironment`` (now used as fallback if ``RequestHandler`` is not an instance of ``HttpRequestHandlerInterface``).

The old implementation can lead to faulty behaviour if the current Request is needed within the view, especially when running Flow behind proxies.

`BUGFIX: Remove broken assets w/o executing usage checks (\`\`flow resource:clean\`\`) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1121>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

`./flow resource:clean` was broken (`Call to a member function getName() on null`) because it could not remove a resource that referenced a file that didn't exist -> ends up in an exception.

**How I did it**

`AssetRepository.removeWithoutUsageChecks()` was introduced in Neos 2.3/Flow 3.3.

`BUGFIX: Allow using a unix socket for mysql connection <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1118>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When specifying a unix socket for mysql connection, no host parameter must be given. As the code enforces a default value for host connection parameter, this simply adds a check to skip this if a unix socket is configured.

`TASK: Improve property mapping exception message <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1104>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The exception message was way too technical and in a lot of cases contained the useless addition `, at property path ""`.

`BUGFIX: FileSystemTarget publishes resources in public root <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1102>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the defined resource paths (which are not taken into account
for the FileSystemSymlinkTarget) only files in subdirectories of
the public resource path were published. This change adds the public
path itself and adjusts the PackageStorage to take into account
an empty relative publication path. Additionally does a slight
refactoring to make the whole class easier to follow.

Fixes: #1055

`TASK: Update section on generating migrations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1110>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The behaviour of `doctrine:migrationgenerate` has changed, this updates
the documentation accordingly.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/4.1.9...4.1.10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
