`4.2.4 (2017-10-18) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/4.2.4>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Make string-based Fizzle filters treat numbers as strings <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1085>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes #1048 by making sure that `strpos()` recieves two strings instead of a
string and a number in a Fizzle filter operation (`*=`, `^=`, `$=`), making sure that
it will look for the actual number in the string it is comparing the operand to instead
of looking for the char that is represented by the number as a unicode ordinal number.

It does this by casting the variable in which the operand is saved to string where it
is given to the strpos/strrpos function as a parameter.

`TASK: Document installing latest stable instead of fixed version <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1092>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of documenting how to install a specific fixed version
just document installing the latest stable version. If people
want to install an older version they can figure that out.
This prevents errors due to forgotten updates to this section
of the documentation.

Fixes: #1078

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update Code of Conduct <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1098>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`TASK: Describe use of 3rd party packages correctly in docs <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1090>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusted documentation to current status quo regarding package
management and third party packages.

Fixes: #751

`BUGFIX: The ScalarTypeToObjectConverter should expose boolean instead of bool <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1087>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Make PHP-Templates PSR2-compatible <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1081>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`BUGFIX: Add missing var annotation to Uri::defaultPortsForScheme <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1093>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Arrays::setValueByPath is too strict <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1089>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Arrays`` ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Force PropertyMapper to correctly handle bool in constructor <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1083>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: AnnotationDriver correctly applies ORM relation annotations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1080>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before any `falsy` value in one of the ORM relation annotations, like e.g. `orphanRemoval=false` or `cascade={}`, would not be applied to mapping and hence the defaults still be in effect. This change fixes that by explicitly checking the annotation properties against null, so that any value specified by the user will actually be applied.

Fixes #1079 

`BUGFIX: CurlEngine follows chain of Http headers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1057>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Under some circumstances, curl will return all the headers of the request
chain, for example when the CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION option is set.
This change will make the CurlEngine follow the chain of response headers
until the final response.

Fixes #1044,  #849, #570

`BUGFIX: localeFormatType dateTime must use correct case <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1021>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/4.2.3...4.2.4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
