`4.2.8 (2018-02-06) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/4.2.8>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Behat subprocess should escape paths in command <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1210>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Re-enable PersistenceMagicAspectTest <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1208>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These tests were skipped since it was adapted to new namespaces
because a wrong use statement was added back then.

This brings back 14 tests by fixing that.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Updated some images in documentation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1190>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updated some documentation images to get rid of the old FLOW3 stuff.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Allow debugging of "silent command failures" <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1181>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sometimes a subcommand execution fails without a proper error message. And
it may happen that even the PHP error is empty at this point.

The error may be "Argument list too long", but this cannot be debugged
easily.

This change dumps the command that was to be executed into a file, if the
length of the command exceeds a threshhold. One can then run it manually
and hopefully see a helpful error message.

`BUGFIX: Pass signal information once, not once more for each slot <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1177>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Signals can pass arguments to slots. These are amended with signal information,
if desired.

Because slots are hadled in a loop, and the passed signal arguments array was
used in that loop, the addition of the signal information was done mutliple
times, if requested.

This change makes sure that the signal information is only added once.

`BUGFIX: Fix DateTimeImmutable property mapping for custom date formats <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1175>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes support for mapping of `DateTimeImmutable` properties introduced
with #677.

Background:

If the source is an array (for example when specifying `date` as well as
`dateFormat`) the conversion fails because `DateTimeConverter::overrideTimeIfSpecified()`
still used the `DateTime` type hint.
This change adjusts the code so that it works with `DateTimeImmutable`
instances as well.

Related: #677

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGIFX: RsaWalletServicePhpTest broken depends on PHP configuration <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1173>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes `RsaWalletServicePhpTest` on recent Alpine Linux with
PHP 7.2 (at least, maybe other system can be affected too). I didn't find
a clear documentation about the reason of this failure:

    1) Neos\\Flow\\Tests\\Unit\\Security\\Cryptography\\RsaWalletServicePhpTest::encryptingAndDecryptingBasicallyWorks
    openssl_pkey_new(): private key length is too short; it needs to be at least 384 bits, not 0

    /…/Classes/Security/Cryptography/RsaWalletServicePhp.php:92
    /…/Tests/Unit/Security/Cryptography/RsaWalletServicePhpTest.php:49

This configuration is as light as possible to not slow down the test suite too much.

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/4.2.7...4.2.8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
