`4.3.2 (2018-01-09) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/4.3.2>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Return path in ThrowableStorage/FileStorage error message <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1166>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Add doctrine mapping type only once <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1165>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you instantiate an additional entityManager in order to connect
to a second database the mappingTypes are added again
which leads to an error.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Fix duplicate configuration keys in schema files <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1164>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest symfony yaml parser is much more strict. This PR fixes duplicate keys in schema files.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Respect \`void\` return type annotation in proxy method <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1152>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to #1091 that didn't entirely fix the bug
mentioned in #1065.

Background:

When using the `void` return type annotation the corresponding
method must not return anything but by default the proxy method
is rendered like:

```
// ...
$result = parent::originalMethod();
return $result;
// ...
```

`BUGFIX: routing:routepath command does not use routing DTOs <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1158>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before this fix, calling `./flow routing:routepath /somePath` will result in something like

```
Argument 1 passed to Neos\\Flow\\Mvc\\Routing\\Route_Original::matches() must be an instance of Neos\\Flow\\Mvc\\Routing\\Dto\\RouteContext, instance of Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Request given, called in /flowRootPath/Data/Temporary/Development/SubContextFritjofBohm/Cache/Code/Flow_Object_Classes/Neos_Flow_Command_RoutingCommandController.php on line 179
```

With this fix, the command uses the right DTOs that were introduced with 4.3.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: catch NoMatchingRouteException to fix the RedirectHandler <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1157>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
When no route is found the NoMatchingRouteException is now thrown, which breaks up the http component chain, so the RedirectHandlerComponent is never reached.
This change swallows the exception.

**How to verify it**

Install the redirect handler extension and make sure the redirects work.

**Checklist**

- [x] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [ ] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Correct expected/actual order in assertion <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1150>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the wrong order of expected and actual parameters to an
`assertSame()` call. Can be confusing if you check test results…

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/4.3.1...4.3.2>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
