`5.0.12 (2019-01-10) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/5.0.12>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Lower recursion limit for debugger from 50 to 5 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1493>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the previous recursion limit of 50 php often ran into memory-limits when debugging larger data structures.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix wrong return type annotation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1486>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix wrong exception message <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1484>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an error caused by a wrong format string used to
generate an exception message when a private property is
annotated for configuration injection.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix risky unit test <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1480>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The changed test does contain an `expects` but did advertise it
`@doesNotPerformAssertions`, leading PhpUnit to consider the
test as risky.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add image/jp2 to known media types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1482>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``MediaTypes``

`TASK: PHP 7.3 - Use break instead of continue within a switch case <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1473>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Starting in PHP 7.3, PHP will throw a warning when using `continue`
within a `switch` to confirm intent. In PHP, within `switch`, `break`
and `continue` do the same thing.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Remove return type declaration, ask() can return mixed value <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1465>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Revert merge #1442 from neos/albe-typehandling-fix <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1466>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit `f92ec4094b70dc74ba44afec8052bc2ca05e6b11 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/f92ec4094b70dc74ba44afec8052bc2ca05e6b11>`_, reversing
changes made to `a00a7512f50a3806857223e8d61d69c86232cdb2 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/a00a7512f50a3806857223e8d61d69c86232cdb2>`_.

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1442

* Packages: ``ObjectHandling``

`BUGFIX: Avoid strlen call on null value <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1463>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `CropViewHelper` should gracefully handle `null` values
internally. Otherwise you get `Argument 1 passed to
Neos\\Utility\\Unicode\\Functions::strlen() must be of the type string,
null given` errors.

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Add support for DateTimeImmutable classes mapping with doctrine <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1401>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change correctly maps `DateTimeImmutable` property types with doctrine.

Depends on #1442

`TASK: Fix duplicate FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH declaration after upmerge <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1462>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A duplicate declaration of FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH slipped in while upmerging from 4.3

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor`` ``ObjectHandling``

`TASK: Correct documentation for fusionPathPatterns on FusionView <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1430>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

I have changed the example for configuring the view through Views.yaml. Currently there is an old integration which doesn't work.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Properly parse \`DateTimeImmutable\` types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1442>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently, a type string of `DateTimeImmutable` will be parsed as `DateTime`. This, for example, leads to any entity properties annotated as `@var DateTimeImmutable` to be hydrated into a `DateTime` class instead.

Note that this is a hotfix at most, because the real issue is, that the regex does not check for a type ending character, like whitespace, line end or another non-word character. Therefore, it eagerly parses `DateTimeImmutable` by matching the `DateTime` prefix and taking that as the parsed type, which is wrong.

* Packages: ``ObjectHandling``

`BUGFIX: Fix format for json_encoded DateTime conversion <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1438>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The format for converting from JSON encoded DateTime was wrong. The format doesn't use the `\\T` separator, but a whitespace and as it seems, `v` is not a valid format specifier for `DateTime::createFromFormat` while it is for `date()`.

http://php.net/manual/en/datetime.createfromformat.php
> In most cases, the same letters as for the [date()](http://php.net/manual/en/function.date.php) can be used.

Also, this provides a test to actually verify the functionality.
Related to #1415

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Support the parser halt fluid token <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1450>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the missing template pre-processor to the Neos.FluidAdaptor RenderingContext.
Actually, it is not missing but gets removed upon setting the template pre-processors.

Fixes #1449

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Make cache application identifier configurable <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1457>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In multiple permutations, we tried to fix problems with cache identifier
uniqueness in cache backends that are shared like apcu or memcache.
In earlier days it included the PHP_SAPI and then in more recent times
the context and root path. With the refactoring of caches, these two
became the hardcoded `applicationIdentifier` which can be used by
any backend to add more specificity to cache identifiers.

It turns out that the root path doesn't work well for some environments
and can result in bugs when used with eg. the PdoBackend and a
deployment that changes the root path (typical Surf or Deployer).

The only backward compatible way to fix this was to make the
`applicationIdentifier` configurable with a default that matches the
previously hardcoded values. That way nothing changes in existing
installations but if the bug appears it can be easily fixed.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/5.0.11...5.0.12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
