`5.1.3 (2018-10-29) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/5.1.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Support converting from json_serialized DateTime <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1415>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds support for converting values that are received from serializing a DateTimeInterface object with `json_serialize`.
If the source array contains a property 'timezone_type' the source date string is assumed to be in the internal serialization format, which is "Y-m-d\\TH:i:s.v" without timezone information, since the timezone is provided in the additional 'timezone' property.

Related to https://github.com/neos/Neos.EventSourcing/issues/181

TODO: Add tests

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Enable maxlength for the form.textarea viewhelper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1412>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bugfix because it is possible to configure a maxlength in the form framework, but this leads to an exception. I didn't realize there was no maxlength when I put it in form framework and the reviewers didn't notice either, so now it is required to have it in the viewhelper.

maxlength in textarea is possible since html5 and is supported by all major browsers including IE since 10 ;)

**Checklist**

- [x] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [x] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Correct naming for setting <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1413>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: #1409

**Checklist**

- [x] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [x] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

`TASK: Fix phpunit coverage reports <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1400>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: #1397

` BUGFIX: doctrine:migrationgenerate won't move file to selected package  <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1394>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes an issue where running doctrine:migrationgenerate would never move the migration-file to the selected package. After doctrine:migrationgenerate has generated a migration, it asks whether the migration-file should be moved to a specific package. No matter what you choose, it would assume you chose "Don't Move".

Also fixes two related issues in the ConsoleOutput's select method:
- Wrong typehint on $default, breaking the default answer functionality
- Wrong phpdoc typehint on $attempts, as it is an integer, not a boolean.

I added a testcase and modified a couple of other testcases for the ConsoleOutput as well.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Revert "BUGFIX: Extend the expected exceptions for missing templates and sections" <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1379>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reverts neos/flow-development-collection#1348

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Extend the expected exceptions for missing templates and sections <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1348>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

typo3fluid/fluid expects specific exceptions to be thrown to implement
the feature of optional sections and partials. Neos.FluidAdaptor has to
throw these exceptions or derivates of them. Otherwise the exceptions won't
be catched and displayed to the user.

fixes: #1347

**What I did**

I implemented solution 1 from the issue

**How I did it**

I made the exceptions shipped with FluidAdaptor inherit from the expected ones from typo3fluid/fluid

**How to verify it**

Try to reproduce the issue after applying the patch

**Checklist**

- [X] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [ ] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [X] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/5.1.2...5.1.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
