`5.1.9 (2019-06-14) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/5.1.9>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Tweak dev dependencies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1608>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1584

`BUGFIX: Avoid error in Debugger::findProxyAndShortFilePath() <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1613>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If `$file` points to eval'd code, the `@file(…)` code does not return
an array, leading to `count()` being called on an incompatible value.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix formatting of note <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1609>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related to #1587

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Flow CLI command warns of mismatching php version <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1391>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If Flow builds a PHP command for a subrequest, it uses the system default if nothing else is configured. With this change, we avoid Flow executing that request if it isn't explicitly configured to use that same PHP version internally too. This should avoid some errors especially in shared hosting scenarios for less experienced users.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Avoid problem loading files in SimpleXML <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1600>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Workaround for https://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=62577

Fixes #1598

`BUGFIX: Fix InvalidControllerException is never thrown <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1605>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IDE complained that a InvalidControllerException is never thrown in the corresponding try-catch-block and i think thats right. Instead there is a InvalidRoutePartValueException thrown in Route:resolves() that should be caught.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix TypeError if subpackage is empty <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1597>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sorry, found another one...

if subpackage is empty RoutingCommandController:getControllerObjectName() should be called with an empty string for the subPackageKey argument. Otherwise an TypeError is thrown because the argument is not nullable.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Synchronise .travis.yml with Neos <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1601>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Backport of `bcab2bb4fbea62f3ba7bfddc5bd4f22ab4d96675 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/bcab2bb4fbea62f3ba7bfddc5bd4f22ab4d96675>`_ to fix builds on 4.3 that use wrong DB in mysql setups and fail
https://travis-ci.org/neos/flow-development-collection/builds/536249389

`BUGFIX: Return type hint should reflect nullable <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1596>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If no controller could be found for the given arguments RoutingCommandController:getControllerObjectName() returns null. The return type hint should reflect that to avoid a TypeError.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add section for configuration of trusted proxies in container <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1587>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a small note that mentions having to configure the trusted proxies in ddev and similar environments. Also explains that Flow therefore trusts all proxies by default in Development context.

Depends on #1586

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Translator uses locale chain <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1451>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes getTranslationById and getTranslationByOriginalLabel use the configured
locale chain.

This is an updated version of #327 and #328. Please see the discussions there. May be retargeted on master.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Restrict allowed classes in unserialize call <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1594>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Remove Doctrine from require-dev <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1584>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It's already a require, so the duplication just causes problems, when the versions don't match any more (as they do in current master).

`BUGFIX: Use source as target if target-language is empty in XLIFF <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1555>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The target element in XLIFF is optional, and even though we recommend
in the documentation to set it, most people omit the target for
"source" XLIFF files (i.e. having english content and target-language
being unset).

For these cases the XliffParser now reads the source element content
into the target element. This makes the fallback rules work for
individual translations and not only full XLIFF files.

In other words: when a new string is added to a source catalog, it
will be used as is even when no translation is available – instead of
simply the id being output.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Avoid PHP exception in NamespaceDetectionTemplateProcessor <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1573>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add error checking when splitting on shorthand syntax.

See https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2484
Related to https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/2479

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`[SECURITY] Avoid OpenSSL padding oracle attacks <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1567>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This avoids OpenSSL Padding Oracle Information Disclosure by
allowing to specify the padding algorithm used in the RSA wallet
service.

Most probably you are not even affected, since only OpenSSL 1.0.1t
and 1.0.2h are vulnerable, but better safe than sorry.

The padding algorithm default is changed to OPENSSL_PKCS1_OAEP_PADDING,
but a fallback decryption is in place for all data that was encrypted with the
previously unsafe padding algorithm.
Therefore you should migrate all your existing encrypted data, by running it through
`decryptWithPrivateKey` and then again through `encryptWithPublicKey` ONCE.

Fixes #1566 

`BUGFIX: Avoid type error when a non taggable cache backend gets flushed by tag <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1537>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The typehint of the `flushByTag` method expected an `int` return type, but the method inside the `AbstractFrontend` returned void when a non taggable backend was flushed. This was the case for a `SimpleFileBackend` for example and led to an error.

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Flow``

`TASK: Better naming for include and exclude paths/patterns <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1550>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Get rid of wording "blacklist"/"whitelist" because there's better terms.
Should have been named like this from the start. I'm to blame.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Replace missing getResolvedUriPath in getPathCommand <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1523>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: #1522

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/5.1.8...5.1.9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
