`5.2.2 (2019-01-10) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/5.2.2>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Lower recursion limit for debugger from 50 to 5 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1493>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the previous recursion limit of 50 php often ran into memory-limits when debugging larger data structures.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix wrong return type annotation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1486>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix wrong exception message <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1484>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an error caused by a wrong format string used to
generate an exception message when a private property is
annotated for configuration injection.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix risky unit test <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1480>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The changed test does contain an `expects` but did advertise it
`@doesNotPerformAssertions`, leading PhpUnit to consider the
test as risky.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add image/jp2 to known media types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1482>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``MediaTypes``

`BUGFIX: Make dev collection and neos/flow dependencies match <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1479>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes the doctrine/migrations dependency (again) and adds ext-xml to
the neos/flow dependencies so updating the collection manifest picks
it up correctly.

Fixes neos/neos-development-collection#2310
Related #1356

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: PHP 7.3 - Use break instead of continue within a switch case <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1473>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Starting in PHP 7.3, PHP will throw a warning when using `continue`
within a `switch` to confirm intent. In PHP, within `switch`, `break`
and `continue` do the same thing.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Make dev collection and neos/flow dependencies match <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1475>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The dependabot changes done to the dev collections are not good. Why? Because dependabot only changes the top-level `composer.json` bit leaves the manifests in Neos.Flow untouched.

This makes sure the dependencies in the collection match the `neos/flow` dependencies again, to avoid breaking things for people.

Related to neos/neos-development-collection#2310

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Remove return type declaration, ask() can return mixed value <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1465>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Revert merge #1442 from neos/albe-typehandling-fix <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1466>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit `f92ec4094b70dc74ba44afec8052bc2ca05e6b11 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/f92ec4094b70dc74ba44afec8052bc2ca05e6b11>`_, reversing
changes made to `a00a7512f50a3806857223e8d61d69c86232cdb2 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/a00a7512f50a3806857223e8d61d69c86232cdb2>`_.

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1442

* Packages: ``ObjectHandling``

`BUGFIX: Avoid strlen call on null value <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1463>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `CropViewHelper` should gracefully handle `null` values
internally. Otherwise you get `Argument 1 passed to
Neos\\Utility\\Unicode\\Functions::strlen() must be of the type string,
null given` errors.

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Correct documentation for fusionPathPatterns on FusionView <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1430>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

I have changed the example for configuring the view through Views.yaml. Currently there is an old integration which doesn't work.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/5.2.1...5.2.2>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
