`5.2.3 (2019-02-10) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/5.2.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Set FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH to 5.2 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1503>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Avoid code migration error if source file does not exist <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1483>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This avoids errors like `fatal: bad source, source=Packages/Sites/Acme.AcmeCom/Resources/Private/Fusion/Root.ts2, destination=Packages/Sites/Acme.AcmeCom/Resources/Private/Fusion/Root.fusion` during `core:migrate`.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGIFX: Correctly check for TaggableBackendInterface <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1499>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `is_a` only checks for parents but not for implemented interfaces. `is_sublcass_of` should be used instead to check if the `$backendClassName` implements the interface

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Flow``

`TASK: Use proper dummy hash in PersistedUsernamePasswordProvider <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1495>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This replaces the dummy hash used to prevent timing based attacks by
a valid hash for a random password that was never actually stored
somewhere.

This avoids problems with PHP's encryption methods. With the
previous hash, the hashing was sometimes not applied properly
and the method returns early so that the time-based information
disclosure vulnerability still exists.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Support "/" in file upload fields <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1469>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds support for file uploads with "/"s in their names.
Adds a `Request::calculateFieldPathsAsArray` method
returning the paths as arrays instead of "/"-separated strings
(later "/"-split again).
Keeps the `calculateFieldPaths` method returning the paths as
strings for backwards-compatibility.

Fixes #1467

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Verify the existence of the \`repositories\` section in the composer manifest before searching for local packages path <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1492>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In older setups that did not have a `repositories` section in the composer-maifest `package:create` tried to foreach over a null-value which lead to an php-error. This change checks that the `repositories` is actually an array before iterating.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/5.2.2...5.2.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
