`5.3.19 (2020-10-29) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/5.3.19>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Make InstallerScripts compatible to composer version 2.0+ <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2188>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of querying the removed method ::getJobType we now check
the class of the job instance like we do in the first lines
of the method.

* Resolves: `#2187 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2187>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Register ObjectManager::shutdown() before ConfigurationManage… <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2184>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `ObjectManager::shutdown()` method will trigger the `shutdownObject()` lifecycle method of
all registered objects. If the `ConfigurationManager` is shutdown beforehand, the configuration
may be in an uninitialized state.

This change swaps the order in which `ConfigurationManager::shutdown()` and `…::shutdown()`
are registered in the Flow's `Package.php` to make sure that the `ConfigurationManager` is still
initialized while the `ObjectManager` is being shut down.

* Resolves: `#2183 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2183>`_ 
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Disallow advising of private methods <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2131>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Intercepting private methods does not work since the original method
is no longer accessible if it is overridden in the proxy class.

But it was still possible to construct this scenario that would then
fail without exception.

With this change an exception is thrown whenever a private method
is target of a AOP designator.

* Fixes: `#1982 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/1982>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add localization for BytesViewHelper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2164>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `BytesViewHelper` can be localized like the `NumberViewHelper`.

solves #601 

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Handle array options in SelectViewHelper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2165>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

fixes #1245 

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/5.3.18...5.3.19>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
