`6.1.0 (2019-12-13) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/6.1.0>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Fix some psalm complaints <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1884>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The TableGenerator was never supported anyways, and the Doctrine
fixes are rather cosmetic. But less deprecation = better code.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add optional limit parameter to String.pregReplace <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1860>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: #1863

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow split sources for all configurations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1825>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change sets `$allowSplitSource` to `true` for all configuration types.

In addition it changes the default value for that flag to true in the method
`registerConfigurationType()`.

Resolves #603 

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add array ksort eel helper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1858>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: #1864

* Packages: ``Eel``

`FEATURE: Add unique array eel helper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1859>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow StringLengthValidator to ignore HTML tags <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1849>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds an option `ignoreHtml` to the `StringLengthValidator`

Usage:

    $validator = new StringLengthValidator(['maximum' => 14, 'ignoreHtml' => true]);
    $validator->validate('Some <b>bold</b> text')->hasErrors(); // false

Resolves: neos/neos-ui#2579

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: fix linking to root domains (empty path), by generating a "/" URL <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1839>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note that some URLs might now end with a slash that did not have a slash
before. If your code relies on that, you might need to adjust it!

Resolves: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/2759
Related: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1804

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Use isUninitializedProxy() (adjust to #1611) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1828>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Just some small code cleanup

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow to skip validation of uninitialized proxies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1611>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The new option `skipUnInitializedProxies` allows to skip validation
of uninitialized proxy instances, to avoid recursions down into
unchanged hierarchies.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Mention the basic development setup steps in the readme <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1812>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This should help people onboard for contribution, as it is not obvious that one has to install the development-distribution and the information for that is not that easy to find and then very elaborate. This is the perfect place to have it in a TL;DR style

`TASK: Remove unneeded code section <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1788>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The call to `TypeHandling::parse` is already done inside `ClassSchema::addProperty` and throws a very similar exception.
As a side effect, this should have a very small performance improvement for class schema building/compile time.

`Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1789>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by [StyleCI](https://github.styleci.io).

---

For more information, click [here](https://github.styleci.io/analyses/86Wn1W).

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Convert main.workflow to Actions V2 yml files <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1765>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As per https://help.github.com/en/articles/migrating-github-actions-from-hcl-syntax-to-yaml-syntax

* Packages: ``github``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/6.0.6...6.1.0>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
