`6.2.7 (2020-11-20) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/6.2.7>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`!!! BUGFIX: Make FluidAdaptor compatible with TYPO3Fluid 2.5.11+ and 2.6.10+ <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2265>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is breaking in case you created your own ViewHelper that overrides the `registerArgument()` or `overrideArgument()` method. In that case you need to add a new boolean optional argument `$escape = null` and forward that to the parent method.

This is a backport of #2257
* Fixes: `#2260 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2260>`_ 
* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Use count instead of find in repository deleting resource <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2241>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a new function in the resourceRepository that allows to count the number of times a file is referenced in a PersistentResource. This function is used in deleteResource of the ResourceManager to improve speed when a file is used in a lot of Persistent Resources.
Same change as with #2229 but should now be merged into Flow 5.3.

* Fixes: `#2228 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2228>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update to vimeo/psalm 4.1 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2246>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* See: `#2243 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2243>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust docblock to hint at variadic arguments <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2232>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This helps psalm (and IDEs) understand the method takes multiple arguments and not just one.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add note about signal information argument to docs <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2217>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Ensure memcache value is a string before searching for chunk <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2192>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`Memcache->get()` can return `false` if the key is not set, 
so the type must be checked before checking if the value was chunked.

**How to verify it**

Configure some caches to use Memcached as backend.
Flush the cache.
Go to the Neos login page: an exception is shown.

Apply the fix.
Flush the cache.
Go to the Neos login page: the login form is displayed.

* Fixes: `#2194 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2194>`_ 
* Packages: ``Cache``

`TASK: Use composer 2 in travis build <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2196>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related to #2188
Follow-up to #2191

`TASK: Clarify signal/slot documentation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2195>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- recommend use of `::class` constant
- explicitly point out signal name vs method name difference
- add example for slot being a closure

* Resolves: `#2061 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2061>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/6.2.6...6.2.7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
