`6.3.13 (2021-10-12) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/6.3.13>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Validate schema only for flow packages <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2595>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`getAvailablePackages()` fetches all packages extending `Neos\\Flow\\Package\\GenericPackage`. But `GenericPackage` does not implement `Neos\\Flow\\Package\\FlowPackageInterface` which provides `getResourcesPath()`.

So the command fails, if generic packages are loaded with `Call to undefined method Neos\\Flow\\Package\\GenericPackage::getResourcesPath()`.

`getFlowPackages()` filters the packages if the have implemented `Neos\\Flow\\Package\\FlowPackageInterface`, which ensures `getResourcesPath()` is defined and implemented.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Don't rely on doctrine using spl_object_hash <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2590>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Doctrine 2.10 switched spl_object_hash for spl_object_id which breaks the deduplication listener. Thanks @dlubitz.
We should use `scheduleForDelete` instead of manually unsetting the to be inserted entity via the object hash.

See https://github.com/doctrine/orm/commit/`84ad007de39bc0947be838c8efcf1455513cbdca <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/84ad007de39bc0947be838c8efcf1455513cbdca>`_

`BUGFIX: Fix missing initialization for tags and missing imports <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2593>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

New pull request with new base on 6.3 for pull request #2589.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2591>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by `StyleCI <https://github.styleci.io>`_.

---

For more information, click `here <https://github.styleci.io/analyses/NAj9Oy>`_.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Reset next check for allowed object if no changes exist <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2586>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

null

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Do not pass signal information to persistAll <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2582>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With PR #2448 the `shouldCheck()` was added, having a return type
declaration of `bool`. The value returned is set only by the argument
given to `persistAll()`, so having Behat tests fail when the value was
a string seemed strange.

The actual value was even stranger:

    Neos\\\Flow\\\Cli\\\SlaveRequestHandler::dispatchedCommandLineSlaveRequest

Reason: The `Package` class in `Neos.Flow` connects a signal to the
`persistAll()` method, and the "signal information" is passed as an
argument…

This change fixes that.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Correctly set up TestingProvider for Behat tests <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2581>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "same fix" as in #2567, see #2386.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Correctly set up TestingProvider for "testable security" <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2567>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As of https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1213
the authentication providers are created using a factory method, this
breaks the assumption the `TestingProvider` is a singleton.

The result is that e.g. ´authenticateRoles([])` no longer works as
expected in functional tests.

This fixes the issue by fetching the provider from the factory instead
of the object manager.

* Fixes: `#2386 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2386>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Prevent proxies for classes with unsupported interfaces <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2555>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the proxy building for classes such that it throws a more
helpful exception when trying to generate proxies for classes
implementing an interface with constructor and parameters.

* Fixes: `#2554 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2554>`_

`Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2556>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by `StyleCI <https://github.styleci.io>`_.

---

For more information, click `here <https://github.styleci.io/analyses/PxRD4m>`_.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: improve request information in exception logfiles <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2552>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

According to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2548
this is my suggestion for better request information in the exception
dump files.

The goal is better readability of the request information for humans
and the chance to parse them with scripts:

- Add the name of the request headers
- Separate each header (name: value) into an own line
- Add the request target (requested url)

`TASK: Update psalm to 4.9 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2549>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates psalm to 4.9 and also updates the baseline.
The new `ParamNameMismatch` error is lowered to `info` level.

Related to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-distribution/issues/74
* Resolves: `#2515 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2515>`_ 
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: NullBackend ignores configured properties <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2545>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

The `NullBackend` just return's `true` in `setProperty()` for all configured properties.

**What does this solve**

I'm using split sources Objects.local.yaml to disable caches in my local setup where I only change the `backend:` configuration to `Neos\\Cache\\Backend\\NullBackend`.

The problem I have is, that the Objects.yaml merge strategy also includes the `backendOptions` and thus by just using
```
Neos_Fusion_Content:
  backend: Neos\\Cache\\Backend\\NullBackend
```
in my `Objects.local.yaml` I get an Exception, thrown by AbstractBackend, that the `NullBackend` doesn't accept the backendOption `hostname` - from my default redis configuration.

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/6.3.12...6.3.13>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
