`6.3.9 (2021-05-02) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/6.3.9>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Make JsonView datetime format configurable <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2445>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This allows to override the badly chosen default format of DateTimeInterface::ISO8601 which is not really compatible to ISO8601 in the JsonView options `datetimeFormat` - see https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.datetimeinterface.php#datetime.constants.iso8601

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Ignore annotation properties that start with underscore when rendering <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2406>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an error when using annotations that use internal public properties starting with an underscore, like zircote/swagger-php. This is only a workaround for the more generic problem of rendering annotations that contain publicly accessible internal state. Optimally rendering annotations for proxies would only be based on the information provided by the original annotation, like PHP 8 Attributes do. Alternatively docblocks would not be altered in proxies at all and just copied, but this would potentially be a breaking change.

* Resolves: `#2387 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2387>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Support nested fluid variables by using the original fluid method <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2444>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this patch it's possible to use the fluid variable nesting feature as well as a specific accessor per element on the path.

**How to use it**

Create a fluid template with nested variables that access an array value:
```html
{config.{type}.value.{flavor}}
```
Assign an array and the two keys:
```php
$this->view->assign('type', 'thing');
$this->view->assign('flavor', 'yellow');
$this->view->assign('config', ['thing' => ['value' => ['yellow' => 'Okayish']]]);
```

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Null coalesce content type in ActionResponse getter <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2458>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The current PHP typehint of `: string` will cause this method to throw an error when `setContentType()` was not called before with a valid string. In Flow 7 we lifted the typehint to `?string`, but IMO that does only complicate the API unnecessarily, because `''` is not a valid content type any way and hence indistinguishable from "did not set content type" for any useful means and purposes.
Hence I suggest using null coalescing instead (and changing the 7+ typehint back to `string`, though that would be breaking).

See also discussion in https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2180#discussion_r550197400

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Clarify regex syntax for Uri request pattern <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2470>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Tweak polyfill replacements <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2469>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The replacements added according to the symfony/polyfill README (and
tweaked recently to actually appear in the split manifest) lead to an
installation issue (composer/composer#9834)

Thus this removes the PHP 5 polyfills (those not being replaced should
not be an issue) to fix that. Also, since we require PHP 7.1, the 7.2
polyfill must not be replaced.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Unicode``

`BUGFIX: ActionResponse contains negotiated media type as content-type <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2180>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This sets the negotiated media type from the Controller in the `ActionResponse` if nothing was set in the action.

Follow-up to #2005

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Add TTL to tags in RedisBackend <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2052>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously the tags did not expire with their key, so they were never removed from Redis. Now the same lifetime as their corresponding entries is added to tags set by the RedisBackend

This is a continuation of #1194. To prevent race conditions when two processes write to the same cache tags at the same time, the list of keys that will be written is `watched <https://redis.io/commands/watch>`_ before and during the transaction. If the key is modified during that time, the transaction `exec` will fail and the TTL is calculated again (up to 4 retries).

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2405>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by `StyleCI <https://github.styleci.io>`_.

---

For more information, click `here <https://github.styleci.io/analyses/5ZaWgv>`_.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/6.3.8...6.3.9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
