`7.0.0 (2020-12-10) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/7.0.0>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`!!!FEATURE: Allow unidirectional OneToMany relations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2056>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Inside a single aggregate `OneToMany` relations are normally best modelled unidirectionally. Bidirectional relations always are harder to manage correctly and can easily lead to unintentional traversal of entity hierarchies with all the drawbacks.
Since Doctrines `OneToMany` annotation is always bidrectional and also dictates the owning side of the relation (at the unexpected side from a modelling PoV), it is not straightforward to modell this correctly.

In Flow specifically, we try to follow DDD best practices in modelling and this means, that the aggregate root is the entry point and the entity that is sent to a repository to persist it and all its subentities. This can not be achieved with the standard doctrine `OneToMany` annotation when the one side is supposed to be closer to the root.

This change allows the user to annotate such a relation simply as:
```php
    /**
     * @ORM\\OneToMany
     * @var Collection<Comment>
     */
```

This is done by remapping `OneToMany` annotations without a `mappedBy` as `ManyToMany` with a unique constraint.

* Resolves: `#2054 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2054>`_ #1395
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! FEATURE: Remove neos/fluid-adaptor as required package <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2152>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes references to Fluid and the dependency to the `neos/fluid-adaptor` composer package.

This is a breaking change if you relied on the fact the Flow installs all Fluid dependencies.
In that case you'll need to require them explicitly in your distribution:
```
composer require neos/fluid-adaptor
```

* Resolves: `#2151 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2151>`_ 
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! FEATURE: Allow RoutePart handlers to access Route Parameters when resolving routes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2173>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This feature allows route part handlers to access any Route Parameters
that has been set for the current request.
This will make it possible to implement cross-domain linking for example
with relative/absolute URLs depending on the current host.

This is a potentially breaking change because it extends the `ParameterAwareRoutePartInterface`
by a new method `resolveWithParameters`.
This means that custom RoutePartHandlers that implement this interface directly have to be
adjusted. The easiest way to adjust an existing handler is to implement this method as follows:

```php
final public function resolveWithParameters(array &$routeValues, RouteParameters $_)
{
    return $this->resolve($routeValues);
}
```

...basically ignoring the parameters.

Route Part handlers extending `DynamicRoutePart` don't need to be adjusted!

This also changes the (non-api) `Route::resolves()` method that now expects an instance of
`ResolveContext` instead of an array with the "routeValues".

neos/neos-development-collection#3020
* Resolves: `#2141 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2141>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!!FEATURE: Add virtual object configurations for framework loggers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2134>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this, it is possible to inject the Flow `systemLogger`, `securityLogger`, `sqlLogger` and `i18nLogger` via the virtual objects `Neos.Flow:SystemLogger`, `Neos.Flow:SecurityLogger`, `Neos.Flow:SqlLogger` and `Neos.Flow:I18nLogger` respectively.

```php
/**
 * @Flow\\Inject(name="Neos.Flow:SystemLogger")
 * @var LoggerInterface
 */
protected $systemLogger;
```

**Note:** This also removes the deprecated `PsrSecurityLoggerInterface` and `PsrSystemLoggerInterface`, which should be replaced by injections like above.

* Resolves: `#2125 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2125>`_ 
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! FEATURE: ValueObjects are embedded by default <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1718>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes all ValueObjects embedded by default. Embedded value objects are the preferred storage method for all value objects, since it better reflects true value object semantics.
This requires a schema update, so you need to generate a migration for your packages and apply it. Alternatively you can run the code migration provided with this change or manually change all your `@Flow\\ValueObject` annotations to `@Flow\\ValueObject(embedded=false)` in order to keep your current database schema.

* Resolves: `#2123 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2123>`_ 
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! FEATURE: Update CLDR/main from 1.8 to version 38 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2118>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates the main locale-dependent LDML files to version 38
The format seems compatible. But content-wise a lot has changed.

New territories / countries / languages have been added and others, like
East-Germany have been removed.

‼ If you like to test it / run tests, you have to remove the CLDR caches manually. Otherwise you will test cached data:

eg: `rm -rf Data/Temporary/Testing/Cache/Data/Flow_I18n_*` 

see: #2116

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: add translation to SchemaValidationException <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2103>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
added translation to schemaValidationError
**How I did it**
added translator and translation unit
**How to verify it**

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Middleware CLI command <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2307>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a CLI command `middleware:list` that can be used to list
all configured middleware components in the order they will be
executed.

* Related: `#2258 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2258>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Accept \\Traversable as a collection type in validation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2202>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds \\Traversable to the array of valid collectionTypes in the TypeHandling class.

* Fixes: `#2201 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2201>`_ 
* Packages: ``ObjectHandling``

`FEATURE: Pass SignalInformation instance to slot if possible <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2216>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the new `wire()` method signal/slot connections use an instance of
`SignalInformation` as parameter for the called slot method.

Slots connected using `connect()` continue to receive a string argument
`EmitterClassName::signalName` like before, if requested.

* Resolves: `#1003 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/1003>`_

`FEATURE: Allow RoutePart handlers to point to external URIs with query <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2147>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change, RoutePart handlers can define all relevant URI features
including query string and fragment in order to point to external URIs:

```php
class SomeRoutePartHandler extends DynamicRoutePart {

    protected function resolveValue($value) {
        return new ResolveResult('', UriConstraints::fromUri(new Uri('https://neos.io:8080/some/path?some[query]=string#some-fragment')));
    }
}
```

Background:

This is a preparation to fully support cross-domain routing. Also, for Neos, this will be
required in order to deal with shortcut nodes pointing to external URLs within the routing context

* Related: `#1126 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/1126>`_, neos/neos-development-collection#3020
* Fixes: `#2140 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2140>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Move DispatchComponent to middleware <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2219>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the SetHeader, ReplaceHttpResponse and DispatchComponent to a single DispatchMiddleware.

Related to #2019
Depends on #2223

`FEATURE: Move Routing, AjaxWidget and ParseRequestBodyComponent to Middleware <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2207>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the Routing-, AjaxWidget- and ParseRequestBodyComponent to PSR-15 middlewares.

Related to #2019
Depends on #2204

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Move FlashMessage, StandardsCompliance and PoweredByComponent to Middleware <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2204>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the FlashMessage-, StandardsCompliance- and PoweredByComponent to PSR-15 middlewares.

Related to #2019
Depends on #2154

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Move Session*Component to Middleware <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2154>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Combine SessionRequestComponent and SessionResponseComponent into a single PSR-15 middleware implementation

- [x] Adjust/remove component tests

* Related: `#2019 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2019>`_
Depends on #2203

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Move SecurityEntryPointComponent to middleware <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2223>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the SecurityEntryPointComponent to a PSR-15 middleware. As a side-effect, this also removes the PrepareMvcRequestComponent, as the functionality is now also done by the SecurityEntryPoint.
If you want to build a middleware that depends on the security framework, place it `after securityEntryPoint`.

Related to #2019

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Move TrustedProxiesComponent to Middleware <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2153>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust TrustedProxiesComponent to match PSR-15 middleware implementation

- [x] Adjust/remove component tests

* Related: `#2019 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2019>`_ 
* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Improved Routing CLI commands <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2227>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Overhauled `./flow routing:*` commands with a better UX and
some new features:

* The output of the `routing:show` and `routing:list` commands
  has been cleaned up and information like supported HTTP methods
  were added
* The `routing:getPath` command was deprecated in favor of a new
  `routing:resolve` command that now supports all of the latest
  routing features and has a more informative output
* The `routing:routePath` command was deprecated in favor of a new
  `routing:match` command accordingly.

* Related: `#1126 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/1126>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add StaticResource EEL Helper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2174>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add a helper to read the uri and content of static (package) resources as this
previously often tedious. The primary usecase is creating resource urls in afx.

StaticResource.uri (packageKey, pathAndFilename, localize)
- (string) packageKey
- (string) pathAndFilename
- (boolean, optional) localize = false

StaticResource.content (packageKey, pathAndFilename, localize)
- (string) packageKey
- (string) pathAndFilename
- (boolean, optional) localize = false

example use in afx:
```
  <link rel="stylesheet" href={StaticResource.uri('Neos.Demo', 'Public/Styles/Main.css')} media="all" />

  <style>{StaticResource.content('Neos.Demo', 'Public/Styles/Main.css')}</style>
```
* Resolves: `#2175 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2175>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add meta data to roles and privilegeTargets <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2166>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the optional configuration values label and description
to role definitions and label to privilege targets. The meta data can
be used to document roles and privilegeTarget and to guide
administrators to assign the correct roles to users.

Example:

```
  'Neos.Neos:UserManager':
    label: Neos User Manager
    description: A user with this role is able to create, edit and delete users which has the same or a subset of his own roles.
    privileges:
    ...
```

* Resolves: `#2162 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2162>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Introduce connection factory <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2169>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Questions:
 - [x] Should it be registred in Objects.yaml that it is used when injection the Connection directly?
 -  ~Should it have a options argument, so you can override configuration?~ (nope - see comment below)
 - [x] When using `singleton` in Objects.yaml can a custom factory override it (write tests and create test package) (@sorenmalling) (https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2169#discussion_r503796927) (find result in https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2169#issuecomment-708324572)


* Resolves: `#2170 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2170>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add localization for BytesViewHelper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2164>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `BytesViewHelper` can be localized like the `NumberViewHelper`.

solves #601 

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`FEATURE: Consider route variables in handler options <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2145>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allows variables to be used in route part handler options like:

```yaml
-
  name: 'Some route'
  uriPattern: 'some/{part}'
  defaults:
    # ...
  routeParts:
    'part':
      handler:   'Some\\RoutePart\\Handler'
      options:
        someOption: '<someVariable>'
```

Related: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3020
* Resolves: `#2142 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2142>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! BUGFIX: Relative position to non-existing key in PositionalArraySorter throws exception <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2214>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Until now, an element positioned relative to a non-existing key would just be skipped silently. With this, it will throw an exception to bring awareness to the "inactive" array element.

This is a breaking change because previously referring to a non existing position would be ignored.
For example:
```yaml
Neos:
  Flow:
    mvc:
      routes:
        'Some.Package':
          position: 'before Some.NonExistingPackage'
```
previously: The corresponding routes would be inserted according to the loading order (i.e. non-deterministic basically)
now: An `InvalidPositionException` exception is thrown:
```
The positional string "before Some.NonExistingPackage" (defined for key "Some.Package") references a non-existing key.
```

* Fixes: `#2213 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2213>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! BUGFIX: Make FluidAdaptor compatible with TYPO3Fluid 2.5.11+ and 2.6.10+ <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2265>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is breaking in case you created your own ViewHelper that overrides the `registerArgument()` or `overrideArgument()` method. In that case you need to add a new boolean optional argument `$escape = null` and forward that to the parent method.

This is a backport of #2257
* Fixes: `#2260 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2260>`_ 
* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`!!! BUGFIX: Define session cookie default SameSite attribute to LAX <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2275>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The neos-ui complaining with warning in the modern browsers because our session cookie has no defined same site attribute and so the browser expect to have a same site with the lax value or none but with the secure attribute.

As the browsers use LAX as default we now also define that.
For mor information read https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite

* Resolves: `#2031 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2031>`_

!`Screenshot 2020-11-24 at 10 31 02 <https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1014126/100076002-fbaaee00-2e40-11eb-9feb-40cc23cf7219.png>`_



**What I did**
Define `SameSite=Lax` when no sameSite is defined.

**How to verify it**
Just load the neos backend and check the dev console for warning. There should be no warning regarding session cookies.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! BUGFIX: Adjust to TYPO3Fluid 2.5.11 and 2.6.10 signature changes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2257>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this you need to update to TYPO3 Fluid 2.5.11+ or 2.6.10+

See https://github.com/TYPO3/Fluid/commit/`f20db4e74cf9803c6cffca2ed2f03e1b0b89d0dc <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/f20db4e74cf9803c6cffca2ed2f03e1b0b89d0dc>`_#r44244534

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! BUGFIX: Do not create 412 Status 'Precondition Failed' in standard compliance helper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1979>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As defined in RFC 7232 section 4.2 the http status 412 indicates that a precondition for a request failed
and that the requested operation could not be executed which only makes sense for non safe requests.

The bug in here is that this is checked after the fact so Flow would still perform the operation but the standard compliance component would add a precondition failed header and thus not prevent the in flight collision but make the problem harder to understand.

This change removes the code for the 412 status from the standard compliance helper. If any application would want to use the status it should evaluate the precondition headers and throw an exception with 412 status if needed.

* Fixes: `#2062 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2062>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Update MINIMUM_PHP_VERSION constant <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2319>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#2237 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2237>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Correct printed path for created doctrine migrations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2297>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tweaks the output of the `doctrine:migrationgenerate` command so that it renders the path of the new migration relative to the root directory.

Before:

    The migration was moved to: Application/<Package.Key>/Migrations/<DB-Type>/Version<Version>.php

Now:

    The migration was moved to: Packages/Application/<Package.Key>/Migrations/<DB-Type>/Version<Version>.php

* Fixes: `#2296 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2296>`_ 
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix default order of middleware components <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2261>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the order of the Middleware components so that
the `SessionMiddleware` is executed before the `RoutingMiddleware`.

Otherwise session based authentication won't work until the
routing middleware was executed.

This also removes most of the explicit `position` configurations
in order to avoid too much interdependency.

If a 3rd party middleware needs to be executed before/after another
one, it can still use `position: before/after <name>`  of course.
Depending on the order of _multiple_ other components is considered
bad practice. But if that's really required one could still add a
`position` setting to the existing middleware configuration.

* Related: `#2019 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2019>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Make composer autoloader the default <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2288>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The old behaviour can now still be achieved by setting `FLOW_ONLY_COMPOSER_LOADER=false`, but is (still) deprecated and will be gone at some point.

This is a breaking change if you relied on the old behavior, specifically on the fact that Flow used to consider all packages underneath the `/Packages` folder.

From now on, packages will only be loaded if they are properly installed via composer!

Related to #2262 

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Remove deprecated code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2262>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Remove obsolete and deprecated PHP code:
* `Cli/Request::getMainRequest()` & `Cli/Request::isMainRequest()`
  * Those were deprecated with 6.0 (via #1552) and never really served a purpose since
    CLI requests can't be nested
* `Neos\\Flow\\Persistence\\Generic\\*`
  * Before we had doctrine, we had a custom persistence layer that was kept as "generic" persistence when we introduced doctrine ten years ago (via `90cb65827c1550e9144e9f83b9231b430c106660 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/90cb65827c1550e9144e9f83b9231b430c106660>`_). Since 6.0 this custom persistence was deprecated in favor of the corresponding `Neos\\Flow\\Persistence\\Doctrine\\*` classes.
    generic persistence is dead, long live generic persistence! (and thanks to @kdambekalns for spending million of minutes and brain cells on this)
* `Neos\\Flow\\Security\\Cryptography\\SaltedMd5HashingStrategy`
  * md5 is unsafe and the hashing strategy was deprecated with 6.0.
* `ObjectAccess::instantiateClass()`
  * deprecated with 5.3.16 (via #1972). With PHP 5.6+ `new $className(...$arguments)` can be used instead
* `HttpRequestHandlerInterface`/`HttpRequestHandler::getHttpResponse()`
  * deprecated with 6.0 (via #1755) and now gone. If you need the current HTTP Response, use a middleware, as the Response does not exist earlier at all

* Related: `#2172 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2172>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Remove custom FluidAdaptor Exceptions on invalid ArgumentDefinition <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2259>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the `Neos\\FluidAdaptor\\Core\\Exception`s when the ArgumentDefinition is invalid in favor of the native TYPO3 Fluid exceptions. With this we remove the boilerplate we have to keep in sync with upstream.

See https://github.com/TYPO3/Fluid/issues/529 and https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2257#issuecomment-728825319

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`!!! TASK: Remove ComponentChain and ComponentContext <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2221>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the HTTP Component chain implementation.

This is a breaking change because it removes the following classes:

* `Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Component\\ComponentInterface` (was part of the public API!)
* `Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Component\\Exception` (public API)
* `Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Component\\ComponentChain` (already deprecated)
* `Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Component\\ComponentChainFactory` (already deprecated)
* `Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Component\\ComponentContext` (already deprecated)

It also adjusts the `Neos\\Flow\\Http\\HttpRequestHandlerInterface` by removing the `getComponentContext()` method.
To get hold of the current HTTP request, use `HttpRequestHandlerInterface::getHttpRequest()` which is no longer deprecated.
`HttpRequestHandlerInterface::getHttpResponse()` is still deprecated. Use a middleware component to get hold
of the current HTTP response. But usually that shouldn't be required anyways. Instead you can alter the final HTTP
response via `$this->response` in ActionControllers.

* Related: `#2019 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2019>`_ 
* Related: `#2258 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2258>`_

`!!! TASK: Add type declarations to persistence interfaces <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2231>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Update Doctrine Migrations to 3.0 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1880>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updated the required version of `doctrine/migrations` from 1.8 to 3.0.

While there are new features in Doctrine Migrations, the reason for us to do
an upgrade is to move forward – the previously used version will not be
maintained forever… This post also gives some background on that:
https://www.doctrine-project.org/2020/04/10/doctrine-migrations-3.0.html

For a Flow user the commands remain unchanged, so far no multi-namespace
migrations are supported and the features to the "official" CLI do not matter,
since we embed the functionality in our own commands.

**Breaking changes**

There are three things that make this upgrade a breaking change:

- `Doctrine\\DBAL\\Migrations` moved to `Doctrine\\Migrations`
- `AbstractMigration` changed method signatures (type delcarations added)

To adjust your PHP code (the migration files), a core migration is provided that
should fix the vast majority of existing migrations. (That core migration is in Flow
and named `Version20201109224100`.)

- The "version" is the FQCN of the migration class (existing entries in the migrations table will be automatically updated)

The needed changes to the DB table where the migration status is stored are done
the first time a command that accesses that table is used. Make sure to have a current
backup and then run `./flow doctrine:migrationstatus --show-migrations`. If all
went well, the migrations should all be listed as a fully-qualified class name, no
longer just a date/time string. If any errors occurred during the command, restore the
backup (the migrations table is sufficient), fix the errors and try again.

See https://github.com/doctrine/migrations/blob/3.0.x/UPGRADE.md#code-bc-breaks
and https://github.com/doctrine/migrations/blob/3.0.x/UPGRADE.md#upgrade-to-20
for a full list of other changes. Most of those are wrapped in Flow code and need no
adjustments in userland code.

* Resolves: `#2122 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2122>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Raise minimum PHP version to 7.3 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2237>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Require PHP 7.3 in composer.json, as PHP 7.2 is EOL by the end of November.

* Packages: ``Arrays`` ``Cache`` ``Eel`` ``Files`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor`` ``Kickstarter`` ``Log`` ``MediaTypes`` ``Messages`` ``ObjectHandling`` ``OpcodeCache`` ``Pdo`` ``Schema`` ``Unicode``

`!!!TASK: Rename 'uploadExtensionBlacklist' setting to 'extensionsBlockedFromUpload' <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2051>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As part of our move to getting rid of bad wording in our code base, this changes the setting `Neos.Flow.resource.uploadExtensionsBlacklist` to the much more descriptive `Neos.Flow.resource.extensionsBlockedFromUpload`.

This is breaking as it changes the path to a setting, but is covered by a code migration.

* Related: `#2024 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2024>`_
* Related: `#2124 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2124>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove old Code Migrations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2332>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes 25 code migrations that are no longer relevant

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Further adjustments to Doctrine Migrations integration <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2328>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2244

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Extend HTTP documentation by additional middleware examples <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2330>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#2258 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2258>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix invalid regex in migration <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2327>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes the migration added with #2320

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Revert "TASK: Fix composer dependencies" <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2325>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reverts neos/flow-development-collection#2324

`TASK: Fix composer dependencies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2324>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

typo3fluid was accidentially included in the collection require, vimeo/psalm was duplicated and doctrine dependencies were duplicated in require-dev.

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Set dependency on neos/fluid-adaptor in neos/kickstarter <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2323>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This should have been done automagically, see https://github.com/neos/flow-development-distribution/pull/56

* Packages: ``Kickstarter``

`TASK: Add migration for ComponentContext deprecation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2320>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds some basic code migrations for the move away from HTTP Components.

* Related: `#2019 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2019>`_, #2258
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust version numbers in tooling configuration <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2322>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates for the 7.0 branch:

* conf.py of neos/flow
* .travis.yml
* apigen.yml
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Print a helpful message, if autoload.php can not be found in CLI <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2283>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a helpful message to the CLI output like this, if the Composer autoload file is mssing:

```
> ./flow
Composers autoload.php file was not found. The file is expected to be located in the path:

/Users/soren/Projects/flow-development-distribution/Packages/Framework/Neos.Flow/Scripts/../../../Libraries/autoload.php

This could be due to a missing 'config' => 'vendor-dir' section of your root 'composer.json' file.

The section key and value should look like the following
"vendor-dir": "Packages/Libraries"
Update your 'composer.json' file and run the 'composer update' command.
```

* Resolves: `#2282 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2282>`_ 
* Packages: ``Flow``

`Update MINIMUM_PHP_VERSION and FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH constants <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2318>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates `MINIMUM_PHP_VERSION` and `FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH` PHP constants

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor`` ``Kickstarter``

`TASK: Some psalm corrections <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2316>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes use of psalm specific docblock attributes for class-string types.
That tells Psalm to make sure that the value is always given a ::class constant

https://psalm.dev/docs/annotating_code/type_syntax/scalar_types/#class-string

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add core migration that warns about component chain usage <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2315>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Provides a minimal core migration that will show a warning
when the migrated package contains PHP code that refers to
the no longer existing `ComponentInterface`.

Usage:

    ./flow flow:core:migrate <Package-Key> --version 20201205172733

Example output:

```
Warnings
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  * Following files refer to the ComponentInterface that has been removed
    with Flow 7.0:

    * Classes/Http/SomeComponent.php
    * Classes/Http/SomeOtherComponent.php

    The component chain was replaced with a middleware chain in Flow 7. Please make
    sure you have read the upgrade instructions and converted your components to
    middlewares.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

* Related: `#2258 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2258>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust HTTP documentation to removed component chain <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2308>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#2258 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2258>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Show a helpful message when a class still implements ComponentInterface <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2311>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related to #2258

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Use PhpUnit 9 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2310>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2293

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Restrict typo3fluid/fluid to versions before signature change <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2298>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2260

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Update symfony dependencies to 5.1+ <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2278>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix return type annotation for TokenInterface::updateCredentials() <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2292>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The result of this call is not used (see https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/blob/`af7b3374688878b822528b4a761741f1102de1cf <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/af7b3374688878b822528b4a761741f1102de1cf>`_/Neos.Flow/Classes/Security/Context.php#L787)

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix UriConstraints::withPort() when port is equal to current port <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2276>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the behavior of `UriConstraints` when using `withPort()` with
a (custom) port that is equal to the port of the applied URL:

```
UriConstraints::create()->withPort(8080)->applyTo(new Uri('http://localhost:8080'), true);
```

Now creates `http://localhost:8080` while it was `http://localhost` before.

* Fixes: `#2263 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2263>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update PHP CGL & documentation examples to current practice <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2280>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#2279 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2279>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`Update composer/composer requirement from ^1.9 to ^2.0 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2251>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates the requirements on `composer/composer <https://github.com/composer/composer>`_ to permit the latest version.
<details>
<summary>Release notes</summary>
<p><em>Sourced from <a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/releases">composer/composer's releases</a>.</em></p>
<blockquote>
<h2>2.0.7</h2>
<ul>
<li>Fixed detection of TTY mode, made input non-interactive automatically if STDIN is not a TTY</li>
<li>Fixed root aliases not being present in lock file if not required by anything else</li>
<li>Fixed <code>remove</code> command requiring a lock file to be present</li>
<li>Fixed <code>Composer\\InstalledVersions</code> to always contain up to date data during installation</li>
<li>Fixed <code>status</code> command breaking on slow networks</li>
<li>Fixed order of POST_PACKAGE_* events to occur together once all installations of a package batch are done</li>
</ul>
</blockquote>
</details>
<details>
<summary>Changelog</summary>
<p><em>Sourced from <a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md">composer/composer's changelog</a>.</em></p>
<blockquote>
<h3>[2.0.7] 2020-11-13</h3>
<ul>
<li>Fixed detection of TTY mode, made input non-interactive automatically if STDIN is not a TTY</li>
<li>Fixed root aliases not being present in lock file if not required by anything else</li>
<li>Fixed <code>remove</code> command requiring a lock file to be present</li>
<li>Fixed <code>Composer\\InstalledVersions</code> to always contain up to date data during installation</li>
<li>Fixed <code>status</code> command breaking on slow networks</li>
<li>Fixed order of POST_PACKAGE_* events to occur together once all installations of a package batch are done</li>
</ul>
<h3>[2.0.6] 2020-11-07</h3>
<ul>
<li>Fixed regression in 2.0.5 dealing with custom installers which do not pass absolute paths</li>
</ul>
<h3>[2.0.5] 2020-11-06</h3>
<ul>
<li>Disabled platform-check verification of extensions by default (now defaulting <code>php-only</code>), set platform-check to <code>true</code> if you want a complete check</li>
<li>Improved platform-check handling of issue reporting</li>
<li>Fixed platform-check to only check non-dev requires even if require-dev dependencies are installed</li>
<li>Fixed issues dealing with custom installers which return trailing slashes in getInstallPath (ideally avoid doing this as there might be other issues left)</li>
<li>Fixed issues when curl functions are disabled</li>
<li>Fixed gitlab-domains/github-domains to make sure if they are overridden the default value remains present</li>
<li>Fixed issues removing/upgrading packages from path repositories on Windows</li>
<li>Fixed regression in 2.0.4 when handling of <a href="mailto:git@bitbucket.org">git@bitbucket.org</a> URLs in vcs repositories</li>
<li>Fixed issue running create-project in current directory on Windows</li>
</ul>
<h3>[2.0.4] 2020-10-30</h3>
<ul>
<li>Fixed <code>check-platform-req</code> command not being clear on what packages are checked, and added a --lock flag to explicitly check the locked packages</li>
<li>Fixed <code>config</code> &amp; <code>create-project</code> adding of repositories to make sure they are prepended as order is much more important in Composer 2, also added a --append flag to <code>config</code> to restore the old behavior in the unlikely case this is needed</li>
<li>Fixed curl downloader failing on old PHP releases or when using self-signed SSL certificates</li>
<li>Fixed Bitbucket API authentication issue</li>
</ul>
<h3>[2.0.3] 2020-10-28</h3>
<ul>
<li>Fixed bug in <code>outdated</code> command where dev packages with branch-aliases where always shown as being outdated</li>
<li>Fixed issue in lock file interoperability with composer 1.x when using <code>dev-master as xxx</code> aliases</li>
<li>Fixed new <code>--locked</code> option being missing from <code>outdated</code> command, for checking outdated packages directly from the lock file</li>
<li>Fixed a few debug/error reporting strings</li>
</ul>
<h3>[2.0.2] 2020-10-25</h3>
<ul>
<li>Fixed regression handling <code>composer show -s</code> in projects where no version can be guessed from VCS</li>
<li>Fixed regression handling partial updates/<code>require</code> when a lock file was missing</li>
<li>Fixed interop issue with plugins that need to update dist URLs of packages, <a href="https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/plugins.md#plugin-modifies-downloads">see docs</a> if you need this</li>
</ul>
<h3>[2.0.1] 2020-10-24</h3>
<ul>
<li>Fixed crash on PHP8</li>
</ul>
<h3>[2.0.0] 2020-10-24</h3>
</blockquote>
</details>
<details>
<summary>Commits</summary>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`cbee637510037f293e641857b2a6223d0ea8008d <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/cbee637510037f293e641857b2a6223d0ea8008d>`_"><code>cbee637</code></a> Release 2.0.7</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`9aefbee53a251cf5bd326fb1318ac53b89a42207 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/9aefbee53a251cf5bd326fb1318ac53b89a42207>`_"><code>9aefbee</code></a> Update changelog</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`89947c5e37656336a71b87374f100f5c4eda268b <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/89947c5e37656336a71b87374f100f5c4eda268b>`_"><code>89947c5</code></a> Bulk up platform config docs, refs <a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/issue">https://github.com/composer/composer/issue</a>...</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`3d5be62250b6156d72e1d1b4f63f20ebde969379 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/3d5be62250b6156d72e1d1b4f63f20ebde969379>`_"><code>3d5be62</code></a> Add article on resolving merge conflicts (<a href="https://github-redirect.dependabot.com/composer/composer/issues/9386">#9386</a>)</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`d6794217d9b9d923fcc7e65da170785a96bb7efd <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/d6794217d9b9d923fcc7e65da170785a96bb7efd>`_"><code>d679421</code></a> Merge pull request <a href="https://github-redirect.dependabot.com/composer/composer/issues/9475">#9475</a> from naderman/fix-alias-alt</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`27f200caf17780c76d5e27f11cf8fa42e88a472a <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/27f200caf17780c76d5e27f11cf8fa42e88a472a>`_"><code>27f200c</code></a> Create ROOT_ALIAS rules inside package rule generation</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`4215344c9339d56cd89ac90e79ab50924769f702 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/4215344c9339d56cd89ac90e79ab50924769f702>`_"><code>4215344</code></a> Rule generator cleanup: no need for 2 added package arrays, more specific roo...</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`59b724652385db3107b824a3d095e668e7087624 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/59b724652385db3107b824a3d095e668e7087624>`_"><code>59b7246</code></a> Update semver to latest</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`595c4c6f7526cb7227e584b7219b30c0c0c41cba <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/595c4c6f7526cb7227e584b7219b30c0c0c41cba>`_"><code>595c4c6</code></a> Make sure we handle cases where STDIN/STDOUT may not be defined</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/commit/`6b48258432f1d166744cebc5bc23b18e69716de9 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/6b48258432f1d166744cebc5bc23b18e69716de9>`_"><code>6b48258</code></a> Add test case for root alias on an unloadable package</li>
<li>Additional commits viewable in <a href="https://github.com/composer/composer/compare/1.9.0...2.0.7">compare view</a></li>
</ul>
</details>
<br />

Dependabot will resolve any conflicts with this PR as long as you don't alter it yourself. You can also trigger a rebase manually by commenting `@dependabot rebase`.

[//]: # (dependabot-automerge-start)
[//]: # (dependabot-automerge-end)

---

<details>
<summary>Dependabot commands and options</summary>
<br />

You can trigger Dependabot actions by commenting on this PR:
- `@dependabot rebase` will rebase this PR
- `@dependabot recreate` will recreate this PR, overwriting any edits that have been made to it
- `@dependabot merge` will merge this PR after your CI passes on it
- `@dependabot squash and merge` will squash and merge this PR after your CI passes on it
- `@dependabot cancel merge` will cancel a previously requested merge and block automerging
- `@dependabot reopen` will reopen this PR if it is closed
- `@dependabot close` will close this PR and stop Dependabot recreating it. You can achieve the same result by closing it manually
- `@dependabot ignore this major version` will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this major version (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
- `@dependabot ignore this minor version` will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this minor version (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
- `@dependabot ignore this dependency` will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this dependency (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
- `@dependabot use these labels` will set the current labels as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
- `@dependabot use these reviewers` will set the current reviewers as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
- `@dependabot use these assignees` will set the current assignees as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
- `@dependabot use this milestone` will set the current milestone as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
- `@dependabot badge me` will comment on this PR with code to add a "Dependabot enabled" badge to your readme

Additionally, you can set the following in your Dependabot `dashboard <https://app.dependabot.com>`_:
- Update frequency (including time of day and day of week)
- Pull request limits (per update run and/or open at any time)
- Automerge options (never/patch/minor, and dev/runtime dependencies)
- Out-of-range updates (receive only lockfile updates, if desired)
- Security updates (receive only security updates, if desired)

</details>

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Reflect minimum required PHP version in documentation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2281>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#2236 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2236>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Auto-generate DoctrineMigrations folder if needed <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2285>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#2284 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2284>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Reduce maximum line length to 80 chars <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2197>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reduces the maximum line length of output to 80 chars when running core migrations.

See https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4651012/why-is-the-default-terminal-width-80-characters for more information

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Allow psalm checks to fail <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2277>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the Travis CI configuration allowing static analysis (psalm) to fail
since they are very fragile at the moment.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update documentation for default embedded ValueObjects <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2255>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Follow-up to #1718 with promised documentation

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: FileSystemStorage::getObjects correctly returns a generator of StorageObject <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2167>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Somehow this went unnoticed and the `getObjects()` method returned a generator generator. Also the element type docblock was wrong.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix use of deprecated method called in exception handling <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2270>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2188#pullrequestreview-534660935

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Make InstallerScripts compatible to composer version 2.0+ <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2266>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of querying the removed method ::getJobType we now check the class of the job instance like we do in the first lines of the method.

Cherry-picked from: `f10e2570b04ad03efe27b1e2821e8d66f40cab3b <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/f10e2570b04ad03efe27b1e2821e8d66f40cab3b>`_

* Fixes: `#2187 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2187>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update doctrine/common requirement from ^2.13.1 to ^3.0.2 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2247>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates the requirements on `doctrine/common <https://github.com/doctrine/common>`_ to permit the latest version.

* See: `#2122 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2122>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: AjaxWidgetsMiddleware initializes SecurityContext <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2256>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Otherwise, the security context is not initialized and security would not work but throw an exception (e.g. Neos.Setup)

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Fix FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH variable <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2254>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This has been forgotten when branching off 6.3.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Use count instead of find in repository deleting resource <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2241>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a new function in the resourceRepository that allows to count the number of times a file is referenced in a PersistentResource. This function is used in deleteResource of the ResourceManager to improve speed when a file is used in a lot of Persistent Resources.
Same change as with #2229 but should now be merged into Flow 5.3.

* Fixes: `#2228 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2228>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update to vimeo/psalm 4.1 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2246>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* See: `#2243 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2243>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Add missing imports for removed SetHeaderComponent and ReplaceHttpResponseComponent <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2240>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the missing namespace imports for correct `SetHeaderComponent` and `ReplaceHttpResponseComponent` b/c class names.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove PHP 7.2 from build matrix <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2235>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the PHP 7.2. builds from travis and raises the PHP version for static analysis to PHP 7.3

`TASK: Adjust docblock to hint at variadic arguments <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2232>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This helps psalm (and IDEs) understand the method takes multiple arguments and not just one.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix and tweaks in PropertyMapperTest <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2218>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This tweaks some assertions and by this exposes a test that was "risky"
in fact did not expose failure of expected behavior.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Adjust functional RoutingTest <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2226>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Tweak RouteTest <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2224>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* stricter asserts (replace `assertEquals` by `assertSame`)
* replace calls to deprecated `getPathConstraint()`
* use `resolveRouteValues()` helper method
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Improve EmailAddressValidator <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2132>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This no longer uses `filter_var()`, which does a rather mediocre job.

* Fixes: `#1227 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/1227>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add note about signal information argument to docs <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2217>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: InternalRequestEngine uses middlewares <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2203>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since the introduction of the PSR-15 middlewares in #1928, the internal request engine should have invoked those but didn't until now.

Related to #2019

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Ensure memcache value is a string before searching for chunk <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2192>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`Memcache->get()` can return `false` if the key is not set, 
so the type must be checked before checking if the value was chunked.

**How to verify it**

Configure some caches to use Memcached as backend.
Flush the cache.
Go to the Neos login page: an exception is shown.

Apply the fix.
Flush the cache.
Go to the Neos login page: the login form is displayed.

* Fixes: `#2194 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2194>`_ 
* Packages: ``Cache``

`TASK: Use composer 2 in travis build <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2196>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related to #2188
Follow-up to #2191

`TASK: Use composer 2 in travis build <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2191>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related to #2188

`TASK: Clarify signal/slot documentation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2195>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- recommend use of `::class` constant
- explicitly point out signal name vs method name difference
- add example for slot being a closure

* Resolves: `#2061 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2061>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Skip private methods in SessionObjectMethodsPointcutFilter <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2193>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The matches() method did not skip private methods, so Flow tried to build interceptors for them. That breaks as of the bugfix in https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2131, leading to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2190

Additionally a potential bug in the regular expression used to skip certain methods is fixed. Without the grouping the first alternative was anchored to the start, the last to the end, but others could be anywhere in the string.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Make InstallerScripts compatible to composer version 2.0+ <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2188>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of querying the removed method ::getJobType we now check
the class of the job instance like we do in the first lines
of the method.

* Fixes: `#2187 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2187>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Register ObjectManager::shutdown() before ConfigurationManage… <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2184>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `ObjectManager::shutdown()` method will trigger the `shutdownObject()` lifecycle method of
all registered objects. If the `ConfigurationManager` is shutdown beforehand, the configuration
may be in an uninitialized state.

This change swaps the order in which `ConfigurationManager::shutdown()` and `…::shutdown()`
are registered in the Flow's `Package.php` to make sure that the `ConfigurationManager` is still
initialized while the `ObjectManager` is being shut down.

* Resolves: `#2183 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2183>`_ 
* Packages: ``Flow``

`Revert "BUGFIX: ActionResponse contains negotiated media type as content-type" <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2171>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduced a serious regression with the way responses are merged. With this a ContentType will ALWAYS be set in the ActionResponse which means the if conditions while merging inside the ActionResponse will always be true so no overwriting of the content type can happen from repsonses generated in a view for example. Eg. Fusion responses that override the content type will not be able to do that.

Reverts: #2005 

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Disallow advising of private methods <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2131>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Intercepting private methods does not work since the original method
is no longer accessible if it is overridden in the proxy class.

But it was still possible to construct this scenario that would then
fail without exception.

With this change an exception is thrown whenever a private method
is target of a AOP designator.

* Fixes: `#1982 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/1982>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Property typing for policy classes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2163>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Handle array options in SelectViewHelper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2165>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

fixes #1245 

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Allow URI-building from CLI context <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2158>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a parameter `$fallbackRequest` to `BaseUriProvider::getConfiguredBaseUriOrFallbackToCurrentRequest()`
that allows it to work in contextx where the active HTTP request
can't get hold of (i.g. in CLI mode).

This also adjusts `UriBuilder::build()` to make use of that new parameter
such that the following code works again from CLI:

```php
$httpRequest = ServerRequest::fromGlobals();
$actionRequest = ActionRequest::fromHttpRequest($httpRequest);
$uriBuilder = new UriBuilder();
$uriBuilder->setRequest($actionRequest);
$uriBuilder->uriFor(...);
```

Previously this would throw an HTTP exception
```
No base URI could be provided. This probably means a call was made outside of an HTTP
request and a base URI was neither configured nor set during runtime.
```
when executed in CLI context.

* Fixes: `#2084 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2084>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Don't convert route options to strings when merging subroutes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2155>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the `RouteConfigurationProcessor` so that it doesn't implicitly
convert route configuration options to strings when merging routes.

Background:

This fixes a regression introduced with #2145 that lead to the Neos
route

```yaml
-
  name: 'Homepage'
  uriPattern: '{node}'
  routeParts:
    'node':
      options:
        onlyMatchSiteNodes: true
```

to be converted such that the `onlyMatchSiteNodes` option was casted
to a string of `"1"` leading to the homepage route resolving all node links.

* Resolves: `#2142 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2142>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Correctly recognize NULL method arguments in JoinPoint <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2150>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#970 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/970>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Throw helpful exception when collection property has missing element type <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2139>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#978 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/978>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Simplify getRelativePublicationPathAndFilename <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2146>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use early returns instead of nested conditions.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: ActionResponse contains negotiated media type as content-type <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2005>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This sets the negotiated media type from the Controller in the `ActionResponse`.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Trim enclosing double quotes from session cookie <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2138>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

According to RFC 6265 https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6265#section-4.1.1 a cookie
value may be enclosed in double quotes.
This change takes this into account by removing the first and last double quote of a
value (enclosing double quotes) when starting/resuming a session.

* Fixes: `#2133 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2133>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update starting guide for #2056 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2121>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Follow-up to #2056 and #2053 which makes use of the remapped ``OneToMany`` annotation for Post->Comment relation in the starting guide.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Use correct class names in PluralsReaderTest <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2119>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* See: `#2117 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2117>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add tests for reader objects <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2117>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds functional tests to Plurals, Number and DateReader

* See: `#2116 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2116>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Deprecate unused MD5 in ResourceMetaDataInterface <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2115>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Marks `ResourceMetaDataInterface::getMd5()` and `ResourceMetaDataInterface::setMd5()` deprecated.

This affects the implementing classes `PersistentResource` and `StorageObject`.

* Related: `#2112 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2112>`_
* Related: `#2113 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2113>`_

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor`` ``Kickstarter``

`TASK: Test against PHP 8 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2015>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Arrays`` ``Cache`` ``Eel`` ``Factories`` ``Files`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor`` ``Kickstarter`` ``Log`` ``MediaTypes`` ``Messages`` ``ObjectHandling`` ``OpcodeCache`` ``Pdo`` ``Schema`` ``Unicode``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/6.3.0...7.0.0>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
