`7.0.11 (2021-11-22) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/7.0.11>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Update HTTP status codes known to ResponseInformationHelper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2631>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

null

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: FunctionalTestCase doesn't reset PrivilegeManager on setup <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2628>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When extending the `FunctionalTestCase` without either `$testableSecurityEnabled` or `$testablePersistenceEnabled` set to `true`, the `privilegeManager` will get `overrideDecision` set to `true`.

All test classes executed later will now also have `overrideDecision` set to `true` instead of the expected `null`.

This fix ensures that `privilegeManager->reset()` is called no matter what.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Do not remove related entities during persistence <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2517>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expected behavior by serialize is not to change the object to serialize but to provide
a textual representation. If your object contained persisted entities in a multivalued
property it had been silently removed.

Rebased follow-up to #2012 

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! BUGFIX: Prefix RedisBackend keys with application context <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2622>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Also refactors MemCached and ApcuBackend to use the `getPrefixedIdentifier()` method.

* Resolves: `#2618 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2618>`_
* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Fixed $offset in XliffReader <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2596>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_Same as #2570 with changed base branch and test_

**What I did**
Fixed problem with the $offset value described in #2569

**How I did it**
$offset must be incremented in the while loop before the itterator. The first element is already handled before the loop. 

**How to verify it**
Create a .xlf File with at least 3 file blocks.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2617>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by `StyleCI <https://github.styleci.io>`_.

---

For more information, click `here <https://github.styleci.io/analyses/VrPoaV>`_.

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Add configuration file for RTD <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2616>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an error caused by recent docutils and old sphinx being
incompatible.

The location of the configuration file in the root of the development
collection allows to (finally!) build the documentation directly from
the collection repository instead of the neos/flow split repository.

That finally fixes the "edit on GH" links, too.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Ignore disabled authentication providers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2607>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
Ignore null providers in the provider factory

**How I did it**
Ignore null providers in TokenAndProviderFactory::buildProvidersAndTokensFromConfiguration foreach loop

**How to verify it**
Set `Neos.Neos:Backend` provider to `null`, `~` or `false` in order to disable it and check for php errors on next login request

Fix #2606

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update editorconfig files <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2604>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

null

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/7.0.10...7.0.11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
