`7.0.14 (2022-04-04) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/7.0.14>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Respect RouteParameters in ResolveCache <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2816>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts `RouterCachingService` such that it includes the specified
`RouteParameters` into the generated `resolveCacheIdentifier`.

* Fixes: `#2815 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2815>`_

`BUGFIX: Prevent UriConstraints to generate invalid URIs <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2818>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts `UriConstraints::applyTo()` such that it never creates
an `Uri` instance with a path of `/` (which according to `guzzle/psr` was
deprecated since 1.x and invalid with 2.x)

* Fixes: `#2473 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2473>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Tweak some @param annotations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2807>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For good measure… 🤷‍♂️

This doesn't change anything, but it's cleaner.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Use env var for FLOW_LOCK_HOLDING_PAGE <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2803>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The lock holding page was supposed to be customizable through
an environment variable, but that never worked…

Now it does, using the new variable name `FLOW_LOCK_HOLDING_PAGE`
as well as the (now deprecated) old name `FLOW_LOCKHOLDINGPAGE`.

* Fixes: `#2798 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2798>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Address deprecation warnings from PHP 8.1 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2796>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The trim method did not like beeing called with a null argument when the FLOW_CONTEXT environment was not set.

```
PHP Deprecated:  trim(): Passing null to parameter #1 ($string) of type string is deprecated in /Users/ficzel/PhpStormProjects/neos-development-distribution-8-0/Packages/Framework/Neos.Flow/Scripts/flow.php on line 68
```

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: LockManager catches PHP 8 Throwable during unlockSite <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2795>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a followup PR to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2716 to catch PHP 8 Throwables possibly thrown during `@unlink($this->lockPathAndFilename);`.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``ObjectHandling``

`BUGFIX: Show origin of yaml parse errors <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2794>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously this was only done when pecl yaml parse was used which made it quite hard to find the
defect yaml file when the Symfony yaml parser was used.

The change added the information about the currently parsed file to the exception message of symfony.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Add behat @BeforeSuite and @AfterSuite to ignored annotation tags <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2726>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
This adds the missing behat annotations to ignored tags, so behat tests using those hooks can be reflected.

**How to verify it**
This is an example of the error that occurs currently when `@BeforeSuite` or `@AfterSuite` is used in any Behat Step class.
!`image <https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16836464/157476691-c5da169d-32d9-497f-b5ef-4806369a6600.png>`_
see also https://github.com/sandstorm/Sandstorm.E2ETestTools/pull/6
This can also be avoided when classes containing those annotations are *not reflected*, meaning if they are outside the psr classes directory.
When they are *inside* psr class directories, an error is thrown (see screenshot)

`BUGFIX: ArrayObjects are mapped correctly without PHP internal properties <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2783>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Until now, `ArrayObject`s would be mapped to array with a structure like this:
```
array(4) {
  ["arrayCopy"]=>
  array(1) {
    ["foo"]=>
    string(3) "bar"
  }
  ["flags"]=>
  int(0)
  ["iterator"]=>
  object(ArrayIterator)#10459 (1) {
    ["storage":"ArrayIterator":private]=>
    object(ArrayObject)#10460 (1) {
      ["storage":"ArrayObject":private]=>
      array(1) {
        ["foo"]=>
        string(3) "bar"
      }
    }
  }
  ["iteratorClass"]=>
  string(13) "ArrayIterator"
}
```
This is because `getGettablePropertyNames()` would return the internal properties which have matching public `get*` methods on the `ArrayObject` PHP class https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.arrayobject.php#arrayobject.synopsis

This adds an ArrayObjectConverter that allows to convert to a plain
array containing only the intended custom properties. It uses `getArrayCopy()` to get the job done.

* Fixes: `#2041 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2041>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: ObjectAccess with direct access on private properties of proxied classes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2389>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this classes with private properties do react as expected to
ObjectAccess::getProperty() and ObjectAccess::setProperty() with
$forceDirectAccess enabled, even when they have been subclassed by the
proxy building of Flow.

* Fixes: `#2388 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2388>`_
* Packages: ``ObjectHandling``

`BUGFIX: Prevent flush force error in production context <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2716>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

The `flow:cache:flush --force` command run's `Files::emptyDirectoryRecursively($environment->getPathToTemporaryDirectory());` which removes the lock file in the temporary directory too. The call to unlockSite() then causes a php warning because of the missing lock file
```
Warning: unlink(/var/www/Data/Temporary/Production/SubContextDevelopment/cbe856ff790c9ba5208811309bdf168b_Flow.lock): No such file or directory in /var/www/Packages/Framework/Neos.Flow/Classes/Core/LockManager.php line 145
```

This PR just add's a bit of error handling to the corresponding unlink of the lock file.

**How to verify it**

Run `./flow flow:cache:flush --force` command in `Production` context.

**Question**

Since this is a bugfix, I used branch 6.3. In case of FLOW 7, some php8 compatiblity was added which would change the PR to 

```
            try {
                @unlink($this->lockPathAndFilename);
            } catch (\\Throwable $e) {
                // PHP 8 apparently throws for unlink even with shutup operator, but we really don't care at this place. It's also the only way to handle this race-condition free.
            }
```

Should I create another PR if this one is merged to get PHP 8 compatibility?

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Don't use transactions to change db character set <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2725>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#2724 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2724>`_

`BUGFIX: Fix PhpAnalyzer to support PHP 8 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2640>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When running composer with PHP 8, the PhpAnalyzer did not work properly.

* Fixes: `#2639 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2639>`_


`BUGFIX: Fix UriConstraints port constraints for default ports <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2715>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, if `UriConstraints` were applied to an URL with a non-default
port (e.g. "8080") this port constraint was applied to the target URL even
if no explicit port constraint was set.

* Fixes: `#2714 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2714>`_

`TASK: Add unit test (thanks @sorenmalling) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2761>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#2626 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2626>`_
* Packages: ``Eel``

`BUGFIX: Make Array.push accept \`null\` for array type casting <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2760>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

related: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3658
fixes: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3657

* Packages: ``Eel``

`BUGFIX: Avoid race condition on symlink publishing <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2669>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the symlink could not be created but exists, check if it points to
the expected target and ignore the error in that case.

* Fixes: `#2667 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2667>`_

`BUGFIX: Use configured pdo cache tables during flush and garbage collection <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2719>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

Without this patch using custom table names for the PDO cache backend would cause problems
as some queries didn’t respect the given table names but used the defaults during DELETE
operations. This has been adjusted.

**How I did it**

Use the configured table names as in all the other queries.

**How to verify it**

Use the backend with custom table names and try to flush them. Without the change an error would occur if the default tables have never been used and setup.

`TASK: Return 400 response if required argument is missing <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2686>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a required argument is missing request processing, the controller
will return a response with a status code of 400, as that is caused
by a bad request. The exception is logged with a notice to the log,
to aid in debugging errors.

Previously the uncaught exception would cause a status 500 response
and log a critical error.

* Fixes: `#2682 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2682>`_

`BUGFIX: Eel Helper \`Array.push()\` auto cast string to array. #2710 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2733>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

fixes #2710

same lose behaviour exists already for `Array.concat()`

* Packages: ``Eel``

`BUGFIX: Properly encode error message in internal request header <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2756>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

According to the HTTP spec, characters like line breaks and some other are not allowed within a request header. Exception messages typically include those. Since guzzlehttp/psr7 1.8.4 it validates headers to this spec and makes our builds fail. This fixes that by base64 encoding the exception message we transfer via the `X-Flow-ExceptionMessage` header. Currently there is no code in the core that uses this header, but if you read this header at some obscure place, you need to `base64_decode()` the value first.

See https://github.com/guzzle/psr7/pull/486/files#diff-`fb174524a7bba27ce140bc6ccd1c30811a6abeed <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/fb174524a7bba27ce140bc6ccd1c30811a6abeed>`_9328e783b326189551ba7ed4R253

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Custom error view: skip 'viewOptions' that are 'null' #2738 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2739>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

fixes #2738

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/7.0.13...7.0.14>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
