`7.0.17 (2022-08-29) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/7.0.17>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Reimplement request method override via middleware <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2860>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documented feature to override the request method with the POST argument `__method` or one of the HTTP headers X-Http-Method-Override or X-Http-Method was accidentally removed in the transition towards PSR-7. This adds it back in by adding a middleware that does the same logic that was removed with the previous Http\\Request class.

* Resolves: `#2856 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2856>`_

`TASK: Raise guzzlehttp/psr7 to ^1.8.4 (security fix) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2880>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes sure `guzzlehttp/psr7` is will not be used in version with a known
security issue.

* Packages: ``Factories``

`TASK: Update .phpstorm.meta.php syntax <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2846>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The old .phpstorm.meta.php syntax is deprecated, see
https://www.jetbrains.com/help/phpstorm/ide-advanced-metadata.html#legacy-metadata-format-deprecated

**Review instructions**

Code completion in PhpStorm should still "know" about these:

```php
// $environment is Environment|obect
$environment = $bootstrap->getEarlyInstance(Environment::class);

// $environment is Environment|obect
$environment = $objectManager->get(Environment::class);
```

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove noise from session LoggingAspect <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2857>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This cleans up the log messages of the `LoggingAspect` for
`SessionInterface`, to reduce log volume.

Before:

    22-06-21 14:35:46 70133      INFO                           Session: Started session with id ixadt08m586zKtcJmUTZend6ykWvP9fM.
        [array] =>
            packageKey:
            [string] => Neos.Flow
            className:
            [string] => Neos\\Flow\\Session\\Session
            methodName:
            [string] => start

After:

    22-06-21 14:35:46 70133      INFO                           Session: Started session with id ixadt08m586zKtcJmUTZend6ykWvP9fM.

No information is lost: The `Session` prefix to the log message is the class
name and will already be fully qualified if not within `Neos\\Flow\\Session`,
the package key was hardcoded and the method name is always what the
advice targets.

**Upgrade instructions**

If you for some reason relied on the log messages having that exact
format, you will need to adjust whatever you need to adjust.

**Review instructions**

The session activity should be logged as before, just less noisy.

I did not create this against 5.3, because, … well. But we could, if you like.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Don't convert numeric strings to numbers in proxy method argument defaults <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2865>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The check `is_numeric` evaluates to true for strings like `"1"` therefore the generated code would be missing the quotes
necessary to keep the default argument a string. This causes type errors in the proxy class when the arguments type is `string`.
Therefore the check whether an argument value is a string should be done first.

This change could be breaking if no type is used and a method somehow relies on the proxy class turning the argument default into a number.

* Resolves: `#2864 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2864>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: InternalRequestEngine should behave like HttpRequestEngine <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2854>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `HttpRequestEngine` holds a reference to the "current" http request in each step of the middleware chain.
The internal request engine does not, making it hard to write tests, that predict system behavior.

With this patch you can fetch the current request (and not only the outer most) even in `InternalRequestEngine`

See `\\Neos\\Flow\\Http\\RequestHandler::handleRequest()`

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/7.0.16...7.0.17>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
