`7.0.2 (2021-01-04) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/7.0.2>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Persist doctrine MetadataStorage changes immediately <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2333>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This basically adds a `EntityManager::flush()` call after `MetadataStorage::ensureInitialized()`
invocations in order to apply any metadata migrations immediately.

Without this a `./flow doctrine:migrate` call might leave the metadata storage in a half-migrated
state if it leads to an exception.

* Related: `#2244 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2244>`_
* Related: `#2357 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2357>`_ 

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Return correct type for EEL trunc math helper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2369>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The internally used `ceil` and `floor` methods of the `trunc` helper return a float which doesn’t
match the signature anymore and leads to unexpected comparison issues when using this helper in Fusion.

**What I did**

Cast the return values to int.

**How I did it**

See above

**How to verify it**

Call `trunc` with a positive int as parameter and check the type of the returned value. Instead of an int you would get a float.

* Packages: ``Eel``

`TASK: Update documentation to remove deprecated Doctrine connection <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2371>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since doctrine/dbal 2.11 PrimaryReadReplicaConnection should be used.
This change updates the documentation to reflect this change.
See https://github.com/doctrine/dbal/issues/4052 for details.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Avoid passing signal information depending on other signals to same slot <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2362>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a regression introduced with #2216

Fixes neos/content-repository-search#42

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Reduce the migration message to one line <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2356>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently only the first part of the line is displayed

!`image <https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/642226/102323341-a5812480-3f80-11eb-8582-bc9cee431d2a.png>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Allow to install with composer 2.0 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2352>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a backport of #2251

* Resolves: `#2248 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2248>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Set Flow_Security_Cryptography_HashService defaultLifetime explicitly <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2345>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Otherwise changing the default configs defaultLifetime will also make this cache be emptied unexpectedly and unnecessarily.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix some docblock typehints <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2351>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This only fixes a couple of docblock typehints primarily in the ResourceManagement and TypeConverters.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Correctly handle missing configuration with identity creation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2349>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The code did not handle a missing `$configuration` when converting an hash and data array containing an identifier.

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1931/files#r503144893

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Kickstarter``

`BUGFIX: Fix creation of translations with targetLanguageKeys defined <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2343>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

Previously, when trying to create translation files with targetLanguageKeys defined (`flow kickstart:translation --target-language-keys="de"` for example), an error was thrown. 
The error said, that translationUnits is not defined in Neos\\Kickstarter\\Service\\GeneratorService. This is, because Neos\\Flow\\I18n\\Xliff\\V12\\XliffParser::getParsedData will return an array (for each <file>-Entry in the Xliff-File, typically only one entry). So we need to use the first item of that data to get the translationUnits from it. 

**How I did it**

I only made a little change and added `[0]` to `$parsedXliffArray` in `Neos\\Kickstarter\\Service\\GeneratorService::generateTranslation()`.

**How to verify it**

1. Try to kickstart a translation with `--target-language-keys` defined. An error will be thrown.
2. Change `$parsedXliffArray['translationUnits']` to `$parsedXliffArray[0]['translationUnits']` in the foreach loop of `Neos\\Kickstarter\\Service\\GeneratorService::generateTranslation()`.
3. Retry to kickstart the translations.

  - Lowest maintained branch is 4.3, so the PR is created against that version.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Kickstarter``

`BUGFIX: Don't access static properties in annotation classes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2335>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`get_class_vars()` will also return static properties. Hence we also try to access static properties for rendering the annotation and access them non-statically. This will lead to errors.

See https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/issues/359#issuecomment-303058035 / https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/issues/359#issuecomment-303227013

This solves that by using `get_object_vars()`, which will only return non-static properties with their current values.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Improve exception when a class can not be loaded during AOP building <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2326>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This will now throw an exception that suggests to flush caches or check the existence and namespacing of the aspect class.

Until now such a case would lead to an unhelpful exception of:
```
Warning: Invalid argument supplied for foreach() in /…/Packages/Framework/Neos.Flow/Classes/Aop/Builder/ProxyClassBuilder.php line 319
```
because the following `get_class_methods()` call would return `null` which is not checked for.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Replace symfony polyfills due to min PHP version <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2331>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://github.com/symfony/polyfill#design

This prevents installing the symfony polyfills for php <= 7.1 and mbstring, since those are requirements of this Flow version.

`TASK: Fix link target of CGL on one page PDF <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2317>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Clicking the preview image on https://flowframework.readthedocs.io/en/stable/TheDefinitiveGuide/PartV/CodingGuideLines/PHP.html#cgl-on-one-page leads to a 404 currently

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Document alternative initial database setup method <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2314>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`./flow doctrine:create && ./flow doctrine:migrationversion --add --version all` directly initializes the database schema and marks all migrations as done. This can be a helpful alternative initial setup in some cases.

* Resolves: `#2264 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2264>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/7.0.1...7.0.2>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
