`7.1.3 (2021-08-25) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/7.1.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Add missing method to Generic\PersistenceManager <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2544>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2448
the method ``throwExceptionIfObjectIsNotAllowed()`` was removed, but
the ``Generic\\PersistenceManager`` was not adjusted. This fixes that in
the simplest possible way…

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Bring back RenderingContext view argument, pin Fluid version <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2546>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With ``typo3fluid/fluid`` 2.7.0 the ``$view`` constructor argument to
``RenderingContext`` is gone, but we support lower versions, thus things
break.

This brings back the argument in our code and pins Fluid to < 2.7.0
for Flow below 7.2.0.

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2541
See https://github.com/TYPO3/Fluid/pull/548

* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Extract doctrine EventListener functionality from PersistenceManager <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2448>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the changes in `#2423 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2423>`_the PersistenceManager was registered as a Doctrine EventListener.
Hence, when building the EntityManager, the PersistenceManager got instanciated with a completely new non-lazy EntityManager. This caused errors when trying to persist entities, as they were not known to that instance of the EntityManager.
This change extracts the EventListener behaviour from the PersistenceManager.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Avoid using the same widget id after session timeout <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2509>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a session times out and the user starts a new one the AjaxWidgetContextHolder assigned ids starting from 0 to each widget id, which might conflict with already generated pages, which had a different widget generating this id.

Now each ajax widget gets an uuid, avoiding such type of collisions.

`BUGFIX: Do not run before and afterControllerInvocation signals in compile time <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2529>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Together with Flow 6.x the Cli commands have been seperated from the Http ActionControllers.

Before these slots have been guaranteed to be executed during runtime only. This patch restores
that behavior. There will be another commit against master, which introduces new 4 new signals,
so in future you can even use compile time slots.

* Fixes: `#2528 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2528>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Return first existing annotation, not "current" one <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2536>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In some cases this error comes up:

    Trying to get property 'lazy' of non-object in ConfigurationBuilder

The reason for the error is the fact that the ``current()`` call does not return the existing annotation instance. The array pointer seems to point somewhere else. Using ``reset()`` instead of current solves the issue.

Using ``reset()`` does not really alter the (promised) behaviour of the method, so it is used instead.

* Fixes: `#2532 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2532>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Keep authorization checks disabled if an exception is swallowed <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2522>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When code is wrapped in a ``Security\\Context::withoutAuthorizationChecks()`` call
and exceptions are caught, authorization checks are no longer disabled in the outer
closure leading to exceptions like
```
The security Context cannot be initialized yet
```

This change fixes this by resetting the ``authorizationChecksDisabled`` to the
previous value in a ``finally`` block.

* Fixes: `#2521 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2521>`_

`BUGFIX: Allow null for source in translation helper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2520>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a bug that was introduced with PR `#2476 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2476>`_

Before it was possible to set the filename to ``null``:

```
I18n.translate('foo', null, [], null, 'Foo.Bar')
```

but without this fix, you have to set the source to ``Main``


```
I18n.translate('foo', null, [], 'Main', 'Foo.Bar')
```

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix PhpUnit deprecation warnings <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2542>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The new ``SessionlessTestToken`` class is needed to replace the mocking of two interfaces (``TokenInterface`` and ``SessionlessTokeInterface``) in one call.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix Psalm issues <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2541>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Require fixed composer/composer packages <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2540>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes sure the required ``composer/composer`` dependency is not
affected by CVE-2021-29472

https://github.com/composer/composer/security/advisories/GHSA-h5h8-pc6h-jvvx

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Raise minimum egulias/email-validator version to 2.1.17 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2531>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is required to pass emailAddressValidatorUsingStrictHasErrorsForAnEmailAddressWithWarnings with data set `#0 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/0>`_

See https://github.com/egulias/EmailValidator/pull/233

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove fusion dependencies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2526>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Only the created package has a dependency on Fusion, iff it uses generated Fusion templates

This needs to be followed up with a change that will add those dependencies to the created packages composer manifest via some way.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Kickstarter``

`TASK: Raise minimal guzzlehttp/psr7 to 1.7 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2527>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Version 1.7 introduces the GuzzleHttp\\Psr7\\Utils class
which is used since Flow 7.1

* See: `#2525 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2525>``_ and ``#2501 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2501>`_

`TASK: Raise minimal phpunit to 9.1  <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2530>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Version 9.1 introduces the method ``assertFileDoesNotExist()``
which is used since Flow 7.0 (#2310)

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/7.1.2...7.1.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
