`8.0.3 (2022-05-19) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/8.0.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`FEATURE: Support object serialization without var annotation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2844>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces support for PHP 7.4 style class property
type declarations for objects to be serialized by Flow. Previously,
a ``@var`` annotation had to be specified for each class property, in
order to communicate the type to Flow's serialization mechanism.

* Resolves: `#2843 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2843>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Store cache content in BLOB field with PdoBackend <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2838>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The cache ``PdoBackend`` used a ``MEDIUMTEXT`` column for the content, with
some special handling for PostgreSQL to fix null bytes in the content.

When using igbinary, even with MariadDB problems can occur, since the
written content is garbled when fetched back and cannot be unserialized
anymore, leading to cache misses / read errors.

This change fixes it by using a ``MEDIUMBLOB`` (``BYTEA`` on PostgreSQL)
field for the content.

* See: `#2830 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2830>`_

**Upgrade instructions**

To make use of the new field, drop the ``cache`` table and run the cache setup again.

Another option is to switch the column type manually using a DB management tool
of your choice.

If you keep the old DB structure, aside from not having the fixed bug fixed:

- MariaDB doesn't care at all, the new code with the old DB structure works just fine.
- PostgreSQL will "work" but need a cache flush, as previously cached content shows wrong.

**Review instructions**

Hard to say, but you definitely need igbinary to run into the issue. Probably also a
specific kind of data that cannot be stored in MariaDB ``MEDIUMTEXT``.

For PostgreSQL some code that used to do bin2hex/hex2bin on the data has been
removed, so if things still work as before, this is good.


* Packages: ``Cache``

`TASK: Fix setup error handling in PdoBackendTest <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2847>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the database setup fails, catching a ``Throwable`` is needed to skip
correctly.

**Review instructions**

The tests should pass, as opposed to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/actions/runs/2346671349

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2838 for the "source" of this.

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Eel`` ``Flow``

`TASK: Delete apigen.yml <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2845>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The API documentation is discontinued, the tooling is outdated and
no one cares for static documentation anymore.

**Review instructions**


`TASK: Adjust issue and pr templates <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2837>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

the templates now mention that the texts are used in change logs and explain the informations we need during review

Should be merged together with:
- https://github.com/neos/BuildEssentials/pull/61
- https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3708

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``.github``

`TASK: Use type casting instead of intval/floatval <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2833>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use type casting instead of slower function calls.

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow`` ``Utility.Arrays``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/8.0.2...8.0.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
