`8.0.6 (2022-11-03) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/8.0.6>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Allow updating of entities related to value objects after persisting <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2871>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#2870 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2870>`_

**Upgrade instructions**


`BUGFIX: disable invisible composer interaction in `./flow package:create` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2926>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

closes `#2757 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2757>`_

with `#2571 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2571>``_was introduced, that the composer subcommand used by ``./flow package:create`` hides its output. But using the ``new NullOutput()` doesn't prevent any interaction initiated by composer such as the infamous:

> neos/composer-plugin contains a Composer plugin which is currently not in your allow-plugins config. See https://getcomposer.org/allow-plugins
> Do you trust "neos/composer-plugin" to execute code and wish to enable it now? (writes "allow-plugins" to composer.json) [y,n,d,?]

the current problem is that composer asks this question but shows not output. So one has to blind input ``y`` without even knowing the question. This is perceived as bug but clearly a feature see #2757.

With this bugfix we use the official supported cli flag ``--quiet`` to archive the same as the NullOutput and furthermore disable any invisible requested interactivity.

in the above case instead of a question - an error will be thrown, which is understandable and fixable by the user:

> In PluginManager.php line 768:
> neos/composer-plugin contains a Composer plugin which is blocked by your allow-plugins config. You may add it to the list if you consider it safe.
> ...
> The installation was not successful.
> Composer returned the error code: 1
>
>  Type: Neos\\Flow\\Package\\Exception
>  Code: 1572187932
>  File: Packages/Framework/Neos.Flow/Classes/Package/PackageManager.php
>  Line: 391
>
> Open Data/Logs/Exceptions/202210221257240bfbde.txt for a full stack trace.

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Make PdoBackend.rewind() on PostgreSQL work <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2924>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* See: `#2838 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2838>`_


`BUGFIX: Avoid errors when `./flow help` is shown for an action without doc-block <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2883>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``./flow help`` command currently throws errors when rendering details for command that has no doc-block.
Since modern php and flow need those doc-blocks less and less this should be supported aswell.

This change will return the argument name as description when no @param annotation is found for a parameter.
This is not as helpful as a description but shows the parameter and avoids an unnecessary error.

**Review instructions**

Remove the doc comments from a cli-command and run ``./flow help command:name`` ... without this change the code will end throwing an exception.


* Fixes: `#2886 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2886>`_


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Render API docs (again) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2921>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This renders API docs (again), using Doctum via GH Actions.

The results are pushed to https://neos.github.io for consumption.

**Review instructions**

A test run result can be seen at https://neos.github.io/flow/8.2/index.html already. The workflow run is visible at https://github.com/kdambekalns/flow-development-collection/actions/runs/3233003582/jobs/5294292366

See also `#1 <https://github.com/kdambekalns/apigenerator.org/issues/1>`_

**TODO**

- [x] Links to GitHub are wrong (``workspace`` must go and branch is wrong)
- [ ] Maybe add a theme to make it look more Neos-y?


* Packages: ``.github``

`TASK: precompose hash to prevent timing attacks <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2915>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Precomposing a hash on cache warmup will make sure that the used hash to prevent timing attack always reflects the current configuration.

Previously there was a bcrypt password with the cost of 16 hard coded in but the configuration was set to 14 as default.

Fixes `#3908 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3908>`_ reported by @Benjamin-K


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Improve command documentation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2910>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update the cli command example in the documentation to follow best practices.
In commands, when showing a progress bar, using ->progressFinish() does not output a newline. This is intended, as it allows adding further text in the same line. However, the full command output - unless empty - should end with a newline.

See https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3894


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust Neos.DocTools settings <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2885>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://github.com/neos/doctools/pull/4


* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/8.0.5...8.0.6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
