====================
1.0.0
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.FLOW3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update version in Package.xml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f9f52ba <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=f9f52bac02e7bf729052f633dd5bf93ce7928428>`_

[TASK] Remove not-fixable functional test
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the changes to the session scope, this
test is not working anymore and there is no
easy way to test the expected behavior with
the current code base.

* Commit: `02bc4a8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=02bc4a8e9a85832af20c105dd11b87ee54a42a01>`_

[BUGFIX] renderAnnotation handles boolean values correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When rendering annotations into proxy classes, boolean values for
options got lost.

* Fixes: `#31111 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31111>`_
* Commit: `1f17268 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=1f172689920c1a2e0bc4697473e9a35bf655b54a>`_

[TASK] Make migrate-annotations.php a tiny bit less strict
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When spaces (yuck) where used for indentation, @validate annotations were
not migrated. This fixes that. Promise you will fix your indentation in
return.

* Commit: `d8af36d <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d8af36d8ec07ff04742efa13d2faffa8f6f01064>`_

[BUGFIX] Terminate cleanly after displaying exception message in CLI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If an exception occurred during a CLI request, it could happen that
another exception was thrown and displayed (SignalSlot, ObjectManager
not yet initialized) because the framework is in an early, unstable
state and thus cannot shutdown the bootstrap normally.

Therefore, if an exception was caught in the bootstrap, FLOW3 must exit
directly without trying to shutdown the bootstrap in the regular way.

* Commit: `3732564 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=3732564cfa933ed4064704d4047a82794acd2f2e>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix package:import git URLs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#31104 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31104>`_
* Commit: `e493de8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=e493de834d5f04fbe484d69209262c3c55cda828>`_

[TASK] Disable SQL query logging by default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4fdeed8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=4fdeed851ef125d271ff7835311fe014f63eff5b>`_

[TASK] Don't flush caches after package:create
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Creating a new package does not really require flushing
all caches because it only adds code (the package class)
but does not remove any code. In Development context this
should not cause any problems and developers save time
if caches are not flushed.

* Commit: `70f9da6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=70f9da6c1ac989b8c386cb8d6e96e243e4a39d35>`_

[BUGFIX] Missing Lazy annotation in migration script
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Lazy annotation is missing in the migration-annotation.php script

* Resolves: `#31083 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31083>`_
* Commit: `69f039e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=69f039e5292ba60c2f68f349ebe431683625deba>`_

[BUGFIX] Minor fix in LinkTest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a test for \TYPO3\FLOW3\Utility\Files::is_link()
that failed to properly delete a previously generated symlink

* Commit: `00f1cfe <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=00f1cfebe896bb8a1dca4ec4f13dc37b70bc7acc>`_

[TASK] Remove scope annotations for prototypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f1eca95 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=f1eca95a65de4ceb7635c5d418b32aa0527d5781>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix doc comment parsing of single line descriptions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A simple bugfix and test for single line description in doc comment
blocks.

* Commit: `629d5e3 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=629d5e38e14101233eae58a630da6b0be0e34ccc>`_

[TASK] Drop @author tags from source code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1da6a9e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=1da6a9eab6d4c51f183bdd199332d054552404e5>`_

[BUGFIX] Exception when entities/valueobjects are not prototype
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#31042 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31042>`_
* Commit: `9c48618 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=9c48618359df5e4a2d3d5e026a43adcb67944c18>`_

[TASK] Beautify exception messages in command line interface
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This wraps a try-catch block around the request handling part for
command line commands and renders a more friendly exception message
with a reference to the exception code and exception reference number,
if any.

* Commit: `2915d77 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=2915d772762f8ffa72ee4df040356856fd258808>`_

[BUGFIX] make is_link() work around work for paths with trailing slash
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Windows \TYPO3\FLOW3\Utility\Files::is_link() compares the
given path with the resolved absolute path due to a bug in the
native is_link() implementation.
This fails if the given path ends on a slash because that is
stripped of by PHPs realpath() function.
This change strips of any trailing slash before comparing the
paths.

* Resolves: `#31061 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31061>`_
* Commit: `b306b18 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b306b18ac9efcba83ae9525bf470cc020d6d4b34>`_

[TASK] Clean up unit tests using the real ReflectionService
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `994f209 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=994f209eb72b9c9dd4e1c26bd2c7fcad4d9c5a40>`_

[TASK] Cache annotation parsing results
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now class and property annotations are collected during regular
class reflection and reused later. This avoids building a new
class/property reflection and parsing of code and docblocks for
every call reading annotations.

* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `3cc446e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=3cc446e5e1832f4f5ca0e7ba0d259b06b514c501>`_

[TASK] Fix edge case in annotation migration script
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The script failed to replace (some?) nested ORM annotations with
prefixed ones.

* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `b22b157 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b22b157a121a2d93ea8d07786a1aa21a3824e602>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix error when doctrine:validate finds errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `207a6c9 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=207a6c976169f0e874c6bb5e072f3d84f92a6a59>`_

[BUGFIX] PackageManager::createPackage() creates invalid annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The PackageManager::createPackage() that is called by the
package:create command still creates a Package.php file with a
"@scope" annotation.

* Resolves: `#31052 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31052>`_
* Commit: `139a4da <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=139a4dac9fecd25c694657ef269ff43761be5eb5>`_

[BUGFIX] Reuse FLOW3 classloader in ReflectionService
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There was a second class loader being created for the annotation
parser. It was lacking the available packages and thus failed
under some circumstances.

The changes adds reuse of the classloader already created in the
FLOW3 bootstrap.

* Fixes: `#31015 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31015>`_
* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `59b7586 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=59b758615957dea8a2efc0defbac2a190b15b31e>`_

[TASK] Add appendExceedingArguments setting to all default routes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the setting appendExceedingArguments to the default
fallback routes of FLOW3 in order to make more custom routes work
out of the box.

* Related: `#30778 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30778>`_
* Commit: `b483234 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b483234cc626e749c46ae495e3364329d28c4b8a>`_

[!!!][TASK] Only append exceeding request arguments to URI if configured
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes the default behavior of the routing framework in
order to be more consequent and easier to extend in the future.
In detail this changes handling of arguments that are passed to
the router::resolve() method but are not part of the route
configuration.
Until now these arguments were just appended to the resulting
URI as query string, but this leads to unexpected behavior (see

Now, if you need this behavior, you have to explicitly tell the
route by enabling the setting "appendExceedingArguments".
This is done for the default action route provided with FLOW3,
so that most links will work out of the box.

* Resolves: `#30778 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30778>`_
* Commit: `d74ce5d <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d74ce5d9cf5081ebe019c594b80c4d17b96d4fa8>`_

[BUGFIX] Routing does not always work if splitString is optional
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the route part following an identity route part optional
like "{post}(.html)", the identityRoutePart creates a correct
link but matching of the URI without the optional part fails,
if the dynamic part contains the split string (in this example
if the post contains the string ".html").
This change fixes this by always matching against the complete
routePath with an improved RegEx.

* Resolves: `#30929 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30929>`_
* Commit: `ce14c00 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=ce14c0003eb87316e760985c7fa59cbee5af1a72>`_

[TASK] Safeguard APC use (in CLI requests)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When activating APC as cache for Doctrine one would get fatal
errors in CLI, because by default APC is disabled for CLI PHP.

Thus we check for the existence of apc_fetch() before actually
using the ApcCache.

* Commit: `10fc76e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=10fc76e9f70603634d9e0b9465a57ba12f2521ef>`_

[TASK] Convenience Method for adding FlashMessages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a method addFlashMessage() to the AbstractController
This should be used for adding FlashMessages instead of
interacting with the FlashMessageContainer directly in order to
reduce interdependencies.
Besides this change renames the default severity of
FlashMessages from SEVERITY_MESSAGE to SEVERITY_OK.

* Related: `#30825 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30825>`_
* Commit: `1f9a0e6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=1f9a0e6552f5290244925dff7b5dc1cc15928491>`_

[TASK] Teach AOP classAnnotatedWith & methodAnnotatedWith
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Two new point cut designators added, includes tests. The pattern
given is used as is, only backslashes are escaped for ease of use.

Also changes the use of classTaggedWith and methodTaggedWith use in
FLOW3 itself to the new designators.

Related:# 27627

* Commit: `db6c825 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=db6c8259102bf2715c6ce12e07e8c6219aabf73d>`_

[TASK] Useless cleanup of @return annotations...
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

just because I touched those files anyway.

* Commit: `4e01754 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=4e01754c2eaacc3ab09eee29bbb58f8654c27103>`_

[TASK] Adjust to new annotation syntax
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The syntax for annotations changed with #27627, this adjusts the
code as needed.

* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `42e8a5e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=42e8a5ebcca3faa970c5325d6fc99e4d0f79c5b7>`_

[TASK] Support new annotation syntax
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds support for the new annotation syntax in a way that aims
to change as little code as needed. It does this by adding support
for namespaced annotations to DocCommentParser, adding some methods
to read annotations using Doctrine Common to the ReflectionService
and adjusts some other parts of the code that needed to be changed
already.

Existing annotations in userland code can be migrated using the
migrate-annotations.php script. Run it without arguments to get
instructions.

Further changes to fully resolve #27627 will follow.

* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `f00f63f <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=f00f63fa2f6134a94a6b478dd6b2583e236705a9>`_

[TASK] Add our annotations as classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds classes for all annotations used in FLOW3 to the
TYPO3\FLOW3\Annotations namespace.

* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `32bb751 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=32bb751e779df8c6bcd28ce54ce01335d9a446ad>`_

[TASK] Remove leftover encoding declarations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#30861 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30861>`_
* Commit: `b7573cb <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b7573cb080369c31e15465a3debb470f8a0b4d85>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] invalid YAML parser result should be empty array
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A non array result of the symfony YAML parser will now be
converted to an empty array to not break things.

Breaking because the new parser seems to behave different than
HordeYaml in some circumstances, so errors may arise due to
missing configuration because the file wasn't parsed.

* Commit: `795c7d0 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=795c7d004e089faa11903088661280ecbdc0fd78>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix access denied exception after session timeout with CSRF
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change nests the firewall inspection in the try catch block that
also catches AuthenticationRequired exceptions from requests. The
CsrfProtection pattern will check if any CSRF token is present in the
context and throws an AuthenticationRequired exception otherwise to
proceed to an entry point for re-authentication.

* Resolves: `#30436 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30436>`_
* Commit: `0edbd68 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=0edbd68a074a248a8ddd4b023002a7a51e98ca48>`_

[FEATURE] Initialize session and session objects on demand
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The default behavior of FLOW3 was that a session was initialized – and
thus a cookie sent – on every request, no matter if the session was
needed or not. This feature delays session initialization until when a
session is really needed. Existing sessions will be resumed
automatically.

A new session is only started if the Session->start() method is called
explicitly, or if a method which was tagged with @session autostart=true
was called.

* Resolves: `#26358 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/26358>`_
* Commit: `6d7d3b9 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=6d7d3b9ae15b120acb647526f92ed443fdab312a>`_

[TASK] Get rid of some duplicate code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Moves one duplicate method up and removes one that was
completely unused by now.

The tests for the latter have been moved to where the code
is actually still used.

* Commit: `c03a6ab <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=c03a6ab106b95c131d79c7fa505d978233fcf08c>`_

[!!!][TASK] Change default authentication strategy
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes the default authentication strategy from "anyToken"
to "atLeastOneToken" in order to provoke an exception if
authentication fails in the common use case (login with username
and password).

* Resolves: `#29488 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29488>`_
* Commit: `d77d259 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d77d259613775337751115098200e6175adfcb28>`_

[TASK] Remove scope annotations from interfaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

They have no effect and in userland code even trigger an error.

* Commit: `b7326a8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b7326a86c391c26745d172d34dd3b532d6d067ba>`_

[TASK] Make PHPSessions configurable
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolve: #30848

* Commit: `0800ec1 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=0800ec1be94a63719efaea59c146f2de12e7fbfe>`_

[!!!][TASK] Clean up Flash Messages API
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- FlashMessageContainer is moved to \TYPO3\FLOW3\MVC
- FlashMessage is removed
- FlashMessageContainer now uses \TYPO3\FLOW3\Error\Message instead of
  FlashMessage objects
- Message has an optional argument "title", which is not used so far
  but that way is compatible to v4 flashMessages
- Message has now a "severity" property

* Resolves: `#30825 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30825>`_
* Commit: `2dc4ac4 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=2dc4ac4cbd6e370edb3aab21fcf5ec8e15ef4077>`_

[BUGFIX] Proxy Class Builder should work with NULL default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Optional arguments with NULL default value will now be correctly
autowired in the proxy class. Therefor optional arguments after
a default NULL will be correctly handled.

* Resolves: `#30858 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30858>`_
* Commit: `8175869 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=8175869916ad95c8bdd06498c8caaad5d6c1ceac>`_

[BUGFIX] Security_Randomizer fallback does not work
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fix should allow Security_Randomizer to work on Win x64
by making sure that the mt_rand fallback actually returns random
bytes.

see http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=294448&atid=1243705
for more details

* Resolves: `#29976 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29976>`_
* Commit: `1dd7ba6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=1dd7ba68d3f0b6d6b2c0f9ef9f480e80aab08f2d>`_

[TASK] Use Symphony YAML parser for settings instead Horde/YAML
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Drop Horde YAML parser and use Symfony YAML parser instead.
It is now included in the new package
Symfony.Component.Yaml be sure to have in active to test this.

Also drop Symfony Console Component

* Resolves: `#30826 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30826>`_
* Commit: `23468ad <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=23468adc78877afc51af7a4c39fe3e649afb226e>`_

[BUGFIX] No endless recursion on a missing CLI PHP binary
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a wrong path has been specified or a PHP binary is used which
does not support CLI, FLOW3 could end up in an endless recursion
on executing the compile sub command.

This change set adds a check for the proper SAPI type in FLOW3's
command line script.

* Fixes: `#30633 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30633>`_
* Commit: `a7da340 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=a7da3409cb3173d17fcabae5c5cc0c10911f0672>`_

[TASK] ClassLoader returns TRUE now if class was found
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `bd7ea42 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=bd7ea42b46a1d54c90a8b7a3527ec6a0bdd70ff4>`_

[TASK] Fix type annotation for ReflectionService in ObjectSerializer
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The var annotation for the ReflectionService property was wrong.

* Commit: `7e90134 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=7e90134862d94ac139e1cc3112893bdbfd6eb126>`_

[TASK] Fixed consistent typo in variable name
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the bootstrap one variable was called
$possibleComanndControllerIdentifier instead of
$possibleCommandControllerIdentifier

* Commit: `d8bed4b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d8bed4b60100ef11ad8a29ca0127521f3a866351>`_

[BUGFIX] Static Route Parts are not reset
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

StaticRoutePart::resolve() sets the value to the route parts
name (= the corresponding URI part).
RoutePart::match() merges the route parts value into the
resulting request arguments. The value of the route part must be
reset to NULL before the route parth is processed.
The StaticRoutePart currently fails to do so. Usually this has
no effect because match() is always called before resolve() but
it fails when using FLOW3 with an app server like AiP.

* Resolves: `#30542 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30542>`_
* Commit: `9d03bb5 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=9d03bb5259c34403d95f7048da9c80e8a7fb7543>`_

[TASK] Use IndexedReader instead of our own "fix"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There was a mapAnnotationsToKeys() method in our annotation
driver. Using the IndexedReader from Doctrine is the better
option.

* Commit: `6216c3d <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=6216c3d791d7fe33503c06c03566e607b52e9b1b>`_

[TASK] Another cosmetic fix.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b46db7b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b46db7bf9436bf9e3beeffd89ccef1acdc06bcfc>`_

[TASK] Trivial cosmetic fixes.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `cb9d87a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=cb9d87ad8f93a34e272dca8128250cfed82faf9c>`_

[BUGFIX] Wrong default value 'Text' for $dataType
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The default value 'Text' for $dataType in the signature of the method
addNewArgument should be 'string' because there is no TypeConverter for
'Text'.

* Resolves: `#29978 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29978>`_
* Commit: `2b29376 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=2b29376b3ea683ccf15ae925a6cd0373d3749491>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix regression: flush caches blocked by aggregate analysis
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On trying to flush the caches after a package has been removed or
deactivated, the Reflection Service can fail due to stale class schema
cache entries. Like the other similar code, the code introduced in
I5538230b42624629a6746ebff5e9e5dae6e93859 must also check if the class
still exists.

* Relates: `#29416 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29416>`_
* Commit: `bdb224d <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=bdb224d862d122e9f3ba97b123d21a3454537efe>`_

[TASK] Clarify persistence behavior for inheritance in aggregate roots
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a number of functional tests to make sure the repository
behaves as expected. For Person and User, the latter being a subclass
of the former, a PersonRepository will also be able to handle User:

* it will return both types
* it will accept both types for add/remove/update

* Resolves: `#29543 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29543>`_
* Commit: `095a742 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=095a742b7d86e082e273444585d222169bce19c0>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Make sure only complete hierarchies are aggregate root
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reported as "Aggregate root detection for Person vs AbstractParty is
broken" the issue at hand was that one could not rely on certain
semantics bound to aggregate root handling:

The association from Account to Person is cascaded during persist,
because the fact that Person has a PersonRepository is not detected
from the type hint to AbstractParty in the Account class.

The solution this change introduces is as follows: all classes in a
hierarchy must have a repository assigned. This can be done by
having one repository on the tip of the hierarchy, but any entity
can have it's own repository as well.

* Fixes: `#29416 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29416>`_
* Commit: `23961c8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=23961c893f130fad1a0cada8891a81f5aec084df>`_

[TASK] Clean up class schema building code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Extract some code into methods to make coming changed
easier.

Also add another test to the unit test for ClassSchema.

* Commit: `c2cf3aa <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=c2cf3aa08b6c257d3aecd5df37e7e1562ecfad9c>`_

[TASK] Some tiny spelling fixes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `5704577 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=570457782d633273d19deca3aeca50262b420bbf>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow file exists check through ResourceStreamWrapper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For file exists checks, we need to make sure that the
ResourceStreamWrapper returns FALSE when checking  the path for a
non-existing persistent resource, and does not continue to the package
check.

* Related: `#30254 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30254>`_
* Commit: `0ef0e45 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=0ef0e45d5fee21220038defa9bed6dc641f1a7c4>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Fix column names for association properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For associations without a join table the column names in the
model tables followed the target type, not the property name as
it was intended (flow3_resource_resourcepointer instead of
resourcepointer).

This is a breaking change, as it requires database changes. For
the framework packages migrations are included, for custom code
generating a migration (or using update) is needed.

* Fixes: `#30223 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30223>`_
* Commit: `395997d <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=395997deae0c4230636276d0c2c0bf7a22d6fcc1>`_

[TASK] Simplify license header in PHP files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#29415 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29415>`_
* Commit: `1a7fd59 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=1a7fd5984752efae57af95ebe5b54ab56dadba1a>`_

[TASK] Fix foreign key handling in migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Migrating down would not work because FK constraints where not named.

* Commit: `3831728 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=3831728995ab9b8f2c0f2a0ec12df1205118d8aa>`_

[TASK] Fix failing unit test after SecurityContext change
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fix a failing unit test after change 5358.

* Commit: `35bda30 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=35bda30a32e6f6db3fd51651289400ad9877cea8>`_

[BUGFIX] AOP proxies are no longer broken if __call() exists
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a class contains a magic __call() method, AOP proxy classes are
broken due to a is_callable() use – method_exists() in addition would
be correct.

* Fixes: `#30351 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30351>`_
* Commit: `3e36de8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=3e36de833c1308ebf4aa3081f0d8e741e6085542>`_

[BUGFIX] @version annotations are not ignored anymore
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For optimization reasons FLOW3's Reflection Service ignored @version
annotations. Due to this, Doctrine's Optimistic Locking feature could
not be used.

This change set removes @version from the list of ignored tags.

* Fixes: `#30380 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30380>`_
* Commit: `9c85705 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=9c8570559b39140255d8aa0b59e8926b2f9c73a0>`_

[BUGFIX] No persistence side effects anymore in functional tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Doctrine's Unit of Work still contained objects from previous tests.
In order to prevent side effects, the Entity Manager must be cleared
before executing further tests.

* Fixes: `#30379 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30379>`_
* Commit: `10af83a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=10af83a3299ea8b0719bc470f28d5d1c8ca481e8>`_

[FEATURE] Support mapping of integer to string
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Just a small additional source type in the StringConverter.

* Resolves: `#30317 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30317>`_
* Commit: `892d67d <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=892d67dcb85b93ba1f2a121672bf9243cceb26ec>`_

[TASK] Guard the account for NULL when getting a party
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This could happen, if the account in the persistence was deleted during
a session.

* Commit: `2ae3f0c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=2ae3f0ce684d00a0b352db1e7b0a3431a4551152>`_

[BUGFIX] CLI Help throws exception if related comments are not available
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The flow3:help:help command parses @see annotations of the
commands and retrieves the method description of related
commands.
This leads to an exception if the target command is not
available (e.g. if the respective package is not loaded).

This change fixes this by replacing the short description
with "<i>Command not available</i>" in those cases.

* Resolves: `#30261 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30261>`_
* Commit: `75a8b89 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=75a8b899390e115cbf5028abcb485029547aeb7d>`_

[BUGFIX] CLI CommandManager throws exception for ambiguous commands
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change ensures that the CommandManager returns the complete
CommandIdentifier for commands with the same controller and command
names, for example:
package.key:controller:command and
otherpackage.key:controller:command

* Resolves: `#30260 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30260>`_
* Commit: `5e5daa1 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=5e5daa1b69c58ba531b270ed685e9528ba01a413>`_

[TASK] Clean up PersistentObjectConverter unit test
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `87863f3 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=87863f3dd1db5786c03ba9c2ee4f91b7b718ec59>`_

[BUGFIX] Read ObjectConverter configuration correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When checking for property mapping configuration the ObjectConverter
asks for the "ArrayToObjectConverter" configuration. This is a leftover
and should be "ObjectConverter".

Also remove the unused persistence manager that is injected.

* Fixes: `#30262 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30262>`_
* Commit: `a9d8cc9 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=a9d8cc9e25281b876204e333c99d833993120046>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow ObjectConverter to use constructor parameters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We need this for image upload in Phoenix.

* Resolves: `#30255 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30255>`_
* Commit: `d366973 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d366973e7ac31b49939d6a17ff642193620800dd>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow file creation through ResourceStreamWrapper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For file creation, we need to make sure that the ResourceStreamWrapper
also returns the path for a non-existing persistent resource.

We need that e.g. for TYPO3 image uploads to work.

* Resolves: `#30254 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30254>`_
* Commit: `c031922 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=c0319226fb990162c30d216e51ffcf349af20ca4>`_

[BUGFIX] Do not override parent instance in compiled proxies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#30234 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30234>`_
* Commit: `0275a5f <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=0275a5fff4f950ad969447836b2312cac7c99e6c>`_

[!!!][TASK] Create lower cased URIs by default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The routing framework is capable of creating case sensitive
URIs so it is possible to resolve different actions depending
on the case of URI segments.

This changes the behavior to convert URIs to lower case by
default as that is the most common requirement.

If you want to keep the case, you can achieve that by setting
toLowerCase to FALSE. This can be done for the whole route or
for specific Route Parts:

.. code-block:: yaml

  -
    name: 'Case sensitive Route'
    uriPattern:    'posts/{post}/{category}'
    defaults:
      '@package':    'TYPO3.Blog'
      '@controller': 'Post'
      '@action':     'index'
      '@format':     'html'
    toLowerCase: false

  -
    name: 'Case sensitive Route Part'
    uriPattern:    'posts/{post}/{category}'
    defaults:
      '@package':    'TYPO3.Blog'
      '@controller': 'Post'
      '@action':     'index'
      '@format':     'html'
    routeParts:
      post:
        toLowerCase: false

Note: This is a breaking change in the sense that dynamic route
parts are now resolved to a lower cased string by default.

* Resolves: `#29977 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29977>`_
* Commit: `755a735 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=755a73526244e29df6b1c106b6e16e9309508e8a>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix recursion error in \TYPO3\FLOW3\var_dump()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A var_dump of for example the PersistenceManager results in a memory
error. This happens because the dumped object is not checked against
the blacklisted class list.

* Resolves: `#30163 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30163>`_
* Commit: `01ffa9c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=01ffa9ce3068e09ab1b771e366b30d17df5af997>`_

[TASK] Fix unit test side effects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The CacheFactoryTest created directories in the distribution
root when run from there. Now it used a mocked filesystem.

The warnings about chmod() seem to be unavoidable, some
comments about that were added to the affected test.

* Commit: `b301de5 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b301de55bdd60a75fd9c23a7b8f724607e770b06>`_

[FEATURE] Add generic Identity RoutePartHandler
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This implements improved routing for persisted objects.

When an object type is specified in the routing configuration,
the new "IdentityRoutePart" is used to match/resolve the route
part.

By default the resolved URI representation (path segment) is
built from the identity properties of the domain model. If no
identity properties are defined, the technical identifier (UUID)
is used.

Additionally a custom URI pattern can be defined in the route.
For properties of type DateTime the date format can be specified
prefixed by a colon.

If a path segment already exists, the IdentityRoutePart handler
will append an increasing counter to ensure unique URIs.

Sample Route:

.. code-block:: yaml

  -
    uriPattern:    'posts/{post}'
    defaults:
      '@package':    'TYPO3.Blog'
      '@controller': 'Post'
      '@action':     'show'
      '@format':     'html'
    routeParts:
      post:
        objectType: TYPO3\Blog\Domain\Model\Post

* Resolves: `#8736 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/8736>`_
* Commit: `38232ef <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=38232efbd45fa0cf83dc5d5b6dd6df4c8521a081>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't remove referenced entities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a check to the removal of dereferenced
entities in the AbstractBackend. If the entity was visited
during the peristence, another reference to the entity was found and it will not be removed.

* Commit: `2c949e3 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=2c949e36da65af8f579d465bfa0e5f9a9028b4f1>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Improve default routing for entities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This improves the default dynamic route part handler so that it
can resolve objects that are known to the persistence manager.
If the routing comes across an object when creating an URI, the
identifier (UUID) of the object is used to resolve the URI part.

This is a breaking change, because routes with dynamic parts now
also match objects even if no custom route part handler is used.

The route:

.. code-block:: yaml

  -
    uriPattern:    'posts/{post}'
    defaults:
      '@package':    'TYPO3.Blog'
      '@controller': 'Post'
      '@action':     'show'
      '@format':     'html'

Will now result in the URI "posts/<UUID>"

* Related: `#8736 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/8736>`_
* Commit: `0863e52 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=0863e5249839a36c7fc4cf5462e41b95f0d136ed>`_

[TASK] Reanimate some ActionController unit tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `cc2caa5 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=cc2caa52abf6b3d17707177da365d6a4d5a3e8ff>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix check against @ignorevalidation annotations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The check for argument names against @ignorevalidation annotations
was done with the raw argument name, but the annotation is to be
given with a leading dollar sign::

 @ignorevalidation $fooBar

The check thus always failed.

* Fixes: `#29761 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29761>`_
* Commit: `87418d9 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=87418d9b0b8c9454993da1e4b6711c8e363f5469>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix case of sub package key arguments in Router::getControllerObjectName()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This just changes the method argument name to be in sync with the annotation

* Commit: `72269db <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=72269db19faaf0e00a87aa7a6ec1415d3855a32a>`_

[FEATURE] Provide signal for after objects have been persisted
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This provides two signals – one for the generic and one for the
Doctrine persistence manager - which is emitted right after
persistAll() was called.

* Commit: `b28cd35 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b28cd358af478aa79e12bf5e32e4e308e3683773>`_

[BUGFIX] Proxy code of advised abstract classes don't produce errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The AOP ProxyClassBuilder produced invalid code when signals were
defined in an abstract class. This was due to invalid proxy class
code and a wrong initialization procedure.

This change fixes the issue by making sure that the advice information
is also built for parent proxy classes when sub classes are used.

Additionally this change set contains functional tests for the
AOP proxy and the signal slot mechanism.

* Fixes: `#28638 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/28638>`_
* Commit: `43f08cb <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=43f08cbd553613dea9c927c297ab677440806f04>`_

[BUGFIX] Lifecycle annotations were not detected
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The detection of Doctrine lifecycle event annotations was broken
since  the last Doctrine update (because of the changed return values
of the annotation reader).

* Fixes: `#29908 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29908>`_
* Commit: `31a9345 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=31a934570e6fc2cff811a8ec35bfd423c14d50da>`_

[BUGFIX] (Resource): Resource manager can also handle files without extension
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Furthermore, we use move_uploaded_file instead of rename to move the target
file to the final destination, as this also works across partition boundaries
in all cases.

* Related: `#29572 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29572>`_
* Commit: `c6546f4 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=c6546f423f870d83b1a7cfb7667b6bfee5b38ca1>`_

[TASK] Use correct respone mock in FunctionalTestCase
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The sendWebRequest() method used mocked ResponseInterface, but lacks
the setStatus() method present in the Web\Response class. This change
makes it use a mock of Web\Response.

* Commit: `1c27b88 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=1c27b883039bca2e7b65251ed3fc564a9d29a468>`_

[FEATURE] Support dropping instances in the Object Manager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a non-API function to the Object Manager which allows for
unregistering instances of arbitrary objects. The next time an object
of that type is requested, a new instance will be created.

This function can be used in functional tests, but must be used with
care because if other parts of the application already use an instance
of the respective type, the whole application might become unstable
because multiple instances of a singleton could be the result.

* Resolves: `#30018 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30018>`_
* Commit: `d22fa5e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d22fa5ee33802ccafc7b64ce278e40a2286d55bb>`_

[BUGFIX] Less persistence side effects in functional tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, the persistence manager was only teared down after a whole
test case ran through. This change makes sure that this clean up happens
after each individual test to ensure that data generated by previous
tests are gone when the next test is run.

* Fixes: `#30017 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30017>`_
* Commit: `eca27e4 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=eca27e400e89769d6a7a77379e1692c0d8d0ec8d>`_

[BUGFIX] Invalid static resource symlinks are removed again
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whenever the resource publishing of FLOW3 finds an invalid
symbolic link in the static resources directory, it should
remove that link and re-publish the resources of the package
in question.

Because Utility\Files::removeDirectoryRecursively() could
not cope with symbolic links, this auto-cleanup failed.

This change set makes removeDirectoryRecursively() and
emptyDirectoryRecursively() symlink aware and sets its
behavior to not follow links but remove the links instead.

Note: change set I2d5c544e6db728594209294cfe779b8bad3c6d59
did not completely fix the issue. If the old symbolic link
pointed to nowhere, the publishStaticResources() method
failed.

* Fixes: `#29777 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29777>`_
* Commit: `5adfc6f <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=5adfc6f4a3e808e88e4673f625065563e5553d5b>`_

[BUGFIX] (Property): Enable mapping of Value Objects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a value object is edited through a Fluid form, we should not try to fetch it
from persistence, but need to re-create it from scratch due do the value object
semantics.

Thus, we need to discard the __identity property in that case.

The change set also adds a functional test.

* Resolves: `#29905 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29905>`_
* Commit: `ba7f2df <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=ba7f2df6b70770cb06e05cddc101a0f4429c729b>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix help command controller argument use
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The command controller was intended to be used with the optional
command identifier without using that as a named option - but that
is a requirement. Thus we now use the first exceeding argument
if the option is not given.

* Fixes: `#29895 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29895>`_
* Commit: `320877b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=320877b9db981e3bbc8b2908480240bfd6838edb>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Optional CLI arguments have to be named
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit 090c243226aee1ede12ab289d651bdbb80564f92 and brings back Ia9f59326e5c4dc793102db20883ae798ae2f27cd which was correct after all.

* Commit: `2908881 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=29088818c2970d5c6991e0e367e1af7690d39bc1>`_

Revert "[!!!][BUGFIX] Optional CLI arguments have to be named"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit a43360b35c0b44288d204462b825dfa564bd3cf2

* Commit: `090c243 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=090c243226aee1ede12ab289d651bdbb80564f92>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Optional CLI arguments have to be named
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently exceeding arguments are ignored if a command has optional
arguments, because the RequestBuilder then can't differentiate them.

This change requires options to be named:
For commands expecting one optional argument you were able to write
./flow3 command value
Now you'd have to write
./flow3 command --optional-argument value

* Resolves: `#29792 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29792>`_
* Commit: `a43360b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=a43360b35c0b44288d204462b825dfa564bd3cf2>`_

[BUGFIX] Invalid static resource symlinks are removed again
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whenever the resource publishing of FLOW3 finds an invalid
symbolic link in the static resources directory, it should
remove that link and re-publish the resources of the package
in question.

Because Utility\Files::removeDirectoryRecursively() could
not cope with symbolic links, this auto-cleanup failed.

This change set makes removeDirectoryRecursively() and
emptyDirectoryRecursively() symlink aware and sets its
behavior to not follow links but remove the links instead.

* Fixes: `#29777 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29777>`_
* Commit: `af9ac03 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=af9ac039850c0371d60d4e3d065d0dfc29af5795>`_

[BUGFIX] Repository does not crash with wrong argument type
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the safe guard in the add(), remove() and update()
functions of the base repository.

* Commit: `3a9a2b1 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=3a9a2b117cd113f6875c0fa51bcda269d769ca63>`_

[TASK] Remove @license annotation from files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#29415 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29415>`_
* Commit: `410f746 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=410f7464501e5c2995fe9fb0edf6bd69a379cf77>`_

[TASK] Fix a method docblock in RawValidator
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d5f5e44 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d5f5e448b6ded66f62b03e0bdafa4a39ebb5ee8e>`_


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update version in Package.xml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `58f143c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=58f143c18edd51a003f180036d4e58bd0d2ba0d1>`_

[BUGFIX] AjaxWidgetContext is not stored in session
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds the required Session autostart annotation
to the AjaxWidgetContext.

* Resolves: `#31119 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31119>`_
* Commit: `4b48063 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=4b480637f842093727ddd86f0515e9868813a9d1>`_

[TASK] Remove scope annotations for prototypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `caafde6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=caafde689130c64fbf014ec21bb4e5d158887755>`_

[TASK] Drop @author tags from source code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `9c2e837 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=9c2e837a50ecc8505d73131b45a77a61fcf487ca>`_

[TASK] Fix two failing unit tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#31015 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31015>`_
* Commit: `cf7b9db <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=cf7b9db796fdc3f9895e300bd40ad3aaad9eda52>`_

[TASK] Fix two failing unit tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Two tests started to fail because the annotation reader was not
initialized. Bad functional style unit tests fixed the dirty
way...

* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `8894121 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=88941212d7d29e4e3999c0b6e111e9ee5d653338>`_

[TASK] Adjust to new annotation syntax
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The syntax for annotations changed with #27627, this adjusts the
code as needed.

* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `984cc21 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=984cc21af56b9ff0c2dbd40c41aaad703f7fe209>`_

[FEATURE] Catch Routing Exceptions in uri and link ViewHelpers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes sure that exceptions that are thrown by the
router are caught and rethrown as ViewHelper exceptions in all
ViewHelpers that make use of the UriBuilder.
This makes it easier for developers to debug their templates
(see #30777).

* Resolves: `#30777 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30777>`_
* Commit: `24a8e23 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=24a8e237a5134b7576b24dcc18d27200d312819b>`_

[TASK] Remove scope annotations from interfaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

They have no effect and in userland code even trigger an error.

* Commit: `77b5d77 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=77b5d7734939512c10195d08f3d1541230258f32>`_

[TASK] Cleaned up Flash Messages API
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust to Flash Message cleanup in TYPO3.FLOW3.

* Commit: `11ddba9 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=11ddba9982b1a13a5127b07d45e793ac9fb944c0>`_

[TASK] Fix case of a @see annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The annotation used @See (uppercase s), but @see is correct.

* Commit: `10e0d07 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=10e0d074a671728500cc1550c1dc96dbb4d9566c>`_

[TASK] Simplify license header in PHP files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#29415 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29415>`_
* Commit: `14bacba <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=14bacba86377f6fb7dbcf486dca40d63b0647550>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


[TASK] Update version in Package.xml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Commit: `ce241a6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=ce241a6df0756d046e5170e135091fb814b450d0>`_

[BUGFIX] Generating ActionControllers using a comma separated list creates wrong Models and Repositories
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Fixes: `#30980 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30980>`_
* Commit: `3a630b8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=3a630b87bee6934250fc3b225c3a07675940b15c>`_

[BUGFIX] Make Kickstarter use addFlashMessage() in CRUD controller
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This uses addFlashMessage() instead of flashMessageContainer->add() in
generated CRUD controllers.


* Fixes: `#31082 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31082>`_
* Commit: `0d3d4b0 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=0d3d4b056c1cf1f82d7e6b1891de8c35a22df780>`_

[TASK] Use new keyword instead of create()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Commit: `87c89da <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=87c89da18f3508c3817d55ad25cf0c9a218e70dd>`_

[TASK] Remove scope annotations for prototypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Commit: `5a53a2e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=5a53a2e505ddd415b98fc1eccd8a5b82f3081ee7>`_

[TASK] Drop @author tags from source code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Commit: `12f7ae9 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=12f7ae936c1ffc0296b405f7a61684c434c027bf>`_

[TASK] Adjust to new annotation syntax
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The syntax for annotations changed with #27627, this adjusts the
code as needed.


* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `542653d <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=542653d002ec10e9c2beaf887de8c3aa2c28f9ca>`_

[BUGFIX] DateTime properties throw exception
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When kickstarting models that contain properties of type
DateTime, CRUD Views throw exceptions because the property
can't be converted to string implicitly.
This is fixed by wrapping DateTime properties in
format.date ViewHelpers in the affected templates.


* Resolves: `#30526 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30526>`_
* Commit: `ca4761b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=ca4761bec9e2745acd71172ecc18f638cc6a717f>`_

[FEATURE] Generate fields in views if Model already exists
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When generating views add reflection of model-class to generate
fields for existing properties in views

* Resolves: `#30253 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30253>`_

* Commit: `afad63b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=afad63b2029e4b0e489a9006d30c2f2a403f9c6d>`_

[TASK] Simplify license header in PHP files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Resolves: `#29415 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29415>`_
* Commit: `895ac16 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=895ac16bc69c9c63dece5b996daed8e59c9265a2>`_

[BUGFIX] Render @return annotation in CRUD actions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Generated CRUD actions did not have a @return annotation at all.


* Fixes: `#30052 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30052>`_
* Commit: `db3fb3b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=db3fb3b65aa496183bb13a6e27b9d9367c6deea8>`_

[TASK] Tweak help for kickstart:actioncontroller
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Commit: `9f6d1a3 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=9f6d1a36b7de03b18a3f16867db0fe07eb5c385b>`_

[FEATURE] Display update schema reminder
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After kickstarting a new action controller with
--generate-related or a new model, the command
now displays a hint that the database schema
needs to be updated manually.

Also adjusts the KickstartCommandController to
use outputLine() instead of echo and return.


* Resolves: `#29883 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29883>`_
* Commit: `033cb94 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=033cb9413e1796a225d861734eb04bec57faf235>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


[TASK] Update version in Package.xml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Commit: `7792f9c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=7792f9c81767e29361fe061a8a9913747c9ab4ac>`_

[TASK] Remove scope annotations for prototypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Commit: `0bf7e4e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=0bf7e4ecf6ec671e68e00ffa363e8dad01e18cf3>`_

[TASK] Drop @author tags from source code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Commit: `fd10606 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=fd10606d88e422e129dc090bc97bdf158aabb268>`_

[TASK] Adjust to new annotation syntax
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The syntax for annotations changed with #27627, this adjusts the
code as needed.


* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `a541ef3 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=a541ef328d980fec386f9130afc0163a2a0b41a5>`_

[TASK] Use Collection interface, not ArrayCollection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `9ecaa42 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=9ecaa42358d11215e887a1e2db89043104c31047>`_

fix case of @column annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Commit: `904d203 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=904d2035c29092b828d2377e27facfeb62dec3e5>`_

[!!!][TASK] Make PersonRepository a generic PartyRepository
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The change to fix #29416 requires any AbstractParty to have a
repository, not only subclasses like Person.

If you were using PersonRepository, use PartyRepository instead
now.


* Related: `#29416 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29416>`_
* Commit: `a074d69 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=a074d691cd1f0af1b98095472c0d0aadf2061928>`_

[TASK] Simplify license header in PHP files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Resolves: `#29415 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29415>`_
* Commit: `acaf644 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=acaf644386be8559c830b2dba710b0954a60f1db>`_

[TASK] Fix foreign key handling in migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Migrating down would not work because FK constraints where not named.


* Commit: `718546f <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=718546f47763af3fd26b2a49d995d1a566fd3f11>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust association property column names
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The needed migration to go with the fix for #30223 (see change Ia32cfcc6cd49385a61845243e67cb0ddd62f5268).


* Related: `#30223 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30223>`_
* Commit: `b275c75 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=b275c75c2799a7e46d037a1653e7b7a625445412>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


[TASK] Update version in Package.xml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `daf32c8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=daf32c84a59e715991270cbc232345595c50a7a5>`_

[TASK] Drop @author tags from source code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f246ff5 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=f246ff5d7dc8c1981b1b1c4b46737804d151b4df>`_

[TASK] Adjust to new annotation syntax
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The syntax for annotations changed with #27627, this adjusts the
code as needed.

* Related: `#27627 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27627>`_
* Commit: `f988bea <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=f988beaf19300c81d73814e0af2cbeb4ce13d5e8>`_

[TASK] Tiny fix to reload JS call in template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3fdc799 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=3fdc79956081360c9c2efb22f2fae9fd69a941a7>`_

[TASK] Simplify license header in PHP files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


* Related: `#29415 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29415>`_
* Commit: `33b40a7 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=33b40a7dd8bc828547b44e28ea5bca5cdedbc31a>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Doctrine
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


[TASK] Update version in Package.xml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2e9cad2 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=2e9cad2857c7fcff6c00286990704cc498204294>`_

[TASK] Update ORM to 2.2.0-DEV
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Still includes 4 of our own patches on top of upstream commit
509e5fb12ff0ab7fc933338bd999c9c850297243.

* Commit: `0054a16 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=0054a16404deb92a9e4455787ab3a75ac1a2785b>`_

[TASK] Update Common to 2.2.0-DEV
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2ab0454 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=2ab045411ffe5ada3f1c569b822e0f573d8ea0fb>`_

[TASK] Update ORM to 2.1.x
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Still includes 5 of our own patches on top of upstream commit
623ab9cee97b99188f0b5bb671ef8e2618485bf5.

* Commit: `8c09ee2 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=8c09ee292f3e859bde583e4d38700a3a5ba146b8>`_

[TASK] Update data fixtures plugin
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is now at 76f8221609129651937f52553f3e1b2bd915fd3e.

* Commit: `e836b0e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=e836b0e5139a2685db736d8eea693e24410e0116>`_

[TASK] Update Migrations to master
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ce1497e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=ce1497ea7d08beeb11649cc2f3bcf259edd1b780>`_

[TASK] Update DBAL to 2.1.4-DEV
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Still includes two of our own patches on top of upstream commit
17005ec6a0d1c6647597c37749a1087807e12c83

* Commit: `5079217 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=507921715f6b3a35e37116ad7733be28b960a32d>`_

[TASK] Update Common to 2.1.2 release
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e4ed890 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=e4ed890a582ed9c60a2b522d97f07f806fd3e071>`_
