====================
1.0.2
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Make Doctrine package protected
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#32599 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32599>`_
* Commit: `f87567c <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=f87567cac7ab8392c936b5366e5ba0d7f168f43f>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Symfony.Component.Yaml
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Make Yaml package protected
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#32599 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32599>`_
* Commit: `7884051 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/Symfony.Component.Yaml.git?a=commit;h=7884051cfd11f387241e42ef06c63a7746fd3fbc>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Make emptyDirectoryRecursively() ignore . and ..
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The check for this breaks when the iterator returns . and .., they are
then handled like files, which cannot work.

* Fixes: `#32762 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32762>`_
* Commit: `fa850f3 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=fa850f3efd00d37e5124a81c2d809ffdf79349df>`_

[BUGFIX] Unit tests remove their temporary files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some unit tests create many temporary files outside vfs://
that are now removed after running the test.

* Fixes: `#32723 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32723>`_
* Commit: `f95aa83 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=f95aa8385b91967eb342513d08dbdbc4f87cb38e>`_

[BUGFIX] Files::emptyDirectoryRecursively affects targets of symlinks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

\\TYPO3\\FLOW3\\Utility\\Files::removeDirectoryRecursively() fails to
properly unlink directory symlinks on Windows.

Thus \\TYPO3\\FLOW3\\Utility\\Files::emptyDirectoryRecursively()
iterates through the target files of a symlinked folder and
removes them!

This change fixes this by introducing a custom unlink() function
that can remove a symlink regardless of it's type (file/directory).

* Fixes: `#32550 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32550>`_
* Commit: `12eea66 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=12eea665d94747288a82a9a0e02094ac6ab8d42b>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unit tests with PHPUnit 3.6.5 in strict mode
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#32738 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32738>`_
* Commit: `d5533b0 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=d5533b0bb05c88853df170a4b988984e459552c3>`_

[BUGFIX] Logout doesn't work anymore
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since 93b608a calling AuthenticationProviderManager::logout()
without initializing the Security Context first, returns without
actually destroying the authentication cookie.

This change fixes this by introducing a new convenience method
isAuthenticated() to the AuthentcationManagerInterface allowing the
AuthenticationProviderManager to check whether a user is
authenticated before trying to fetch the session.

* Fixes: `#32285 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32285>`_
* Commit: `6ba03e4 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=6ba03e4810791eb15f43282789b8dd29d8d57c09>`_

[BUGFIX] "Wrong" EOL characters break parsing of doc comments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When \\n\\r was used as EOL instead of just \\n the parsed doc comments
would retain the \\r which would cause confusing exceptions in some
cases later on.

* Fixes: `#31363 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31363>`_
* Related: `#32466 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32466>`_
* Related: `#31087 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31087>`_
* Commit: `6ca1f9b <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=6ca1f9b2734e083f0f707af0d2f83f7bf5da87de>`_

[BUGFIX] Make validation upon persistence work again
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The validation upon persistence was dropped (more or less by accident)
when we switched to Doctrine. This change brings it back.

In addition it fixes the exception message produced in the generic
AbstractBackend when validation fails.

* Fixes: `#31502 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31502>`_
* Commit: `3522f1b <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=3522f1b264b022a5fabc2dc9c7a05a82c88b5d67>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unit tests failing with PHPUnit 3.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#32015 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32015>`_
* Commit: `f030d70 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=f030d705121da8dc5946e0d6a097cef9c70fb2b7>`_

[TASK] Make FLOW3 package protected
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#32599 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32599>`_
* Commit: `c82dc98 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=c82dc98ace74c80f3f5386a6f55bbef63c187c5f>`_

[BUGFIX] Only flush() the Doctrine ORM if it is open
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In some cases it can happen, that the EntityManager is closed at the end
of a request This can be a valid situation (see #30933 for more).

This change makes persistAll() check if the EntityManager is open
before calling flush() on it.

* Fixes: `#30934 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30934>`_
* Commit: `4911190 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=491119035d378be54da1894ee083d1f5dacc5dde>`_

[BUGFIX] ACL file permissions do not work correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When setting file permissions the setting of ACL would succeed but
the set permissions did not work as expected. This changes fixes that.

In addition it makes the calls in a chain so that the check for the
return value of the chmod commands is more robust. The directories
that are created are now always owned by the command line user.

* Fixes: `#32499 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32499>`_
* Commit: `9ae0f93 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=9ae0f93715a01307ed474446562eb9d74275f197>`_

[BUGFIX] Trigger allObjectsPersisted after every functional test
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The tearDown() method of the base functional test case clears the
persistence manager's state so it is ready for the next test, avoiding
side effects.

However, certain repositories (such as the TYPO3CR NodeRepository) rely
on the signal "allObjectsPersisted" which triggers their internal
cleanup function. If this signal is not, sent, the next test will still
see added objects stored directly in the repository.

The solution is to call persistAll() in the tearDown() method, even if
the just executed test doesn't require it.

* Fixes: `#32346 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32346>`_
* Commit: `36a893c <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=36a893c22e774810d0511797ab4d989531342f67>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix check for stripped comments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The bootstrap checks for the presence of doc comments, to avoid
problems with some bytecode caches that strip comments.

That check did not work correctly (FALSE is returned but the check
expects an empty string). In case an error is seen, the exception
cannot be thrown as well (no classloader available at that point).
That exception issue has been been fixed for another check as well.

On top of this the check for magic_quotes_gpc has been adjusted a
tiny bit.

* Fixes: `#32049 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32049>`_
* Commit: `8264f7e <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=8264f7eb5286fe42cc8a9413ffb43a77d33917a3>`_

[TASK] Move ObjectValidationFailedException out of Generic
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The exception is not specific to generic persistence, thus it should
not be inside the Generic namespace.

* Related: `#31502 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31502>`_
* Commit: `a8e6d8e <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=a8e6d8e2adce35928fea0e424128ea6adfe6d291>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust AuthenticationController to FlashMessages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#31931 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31931>`_
* Commit: `d381413 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=d381413f8b4f8acce8ffb80364dde7cea558c8b4>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Make Fluid package protected
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#32599 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32599>`_
* Commit: `d57a87b <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=d57a87b61a5703461676e8b819a500968c985c1f>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unit tests failing with PHPUnit 3.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#32016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32016>`_
* Commit: `bf98ab6 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=bf98ab6dc79464c39eb104420e1bdd8deea04439>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Make Party package protected
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#32599 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32599>`_
* Commit: `b5e5c6d <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=b5e5c6d71da63308a2f1e110f8cdfd53ce2296fe>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix links on Welcome screen
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The links to the FLOW3 website were mostly wrong.

* Fixes: `#32005 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32005>`_
* Commit: `6cd06cb <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=6cd06cb0e4b10a2d0bef8967652d08f049f35216>`_

