====================
1.0.3
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Doctrine
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update to current 2.2.0 versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Common is at upstream 2.2.0, with DataFixtures at
bed8908ae929562317e5c59dc0bee24f3b63067e.

DBAL is at upstream 2.2.1 plus on of our changes, with Migrations at
9e81984b0f126b0830d9ac6acc2d1da81aba2b94.

ORM is at upstream 2.2.0 plus three of our own changes on top.

* Related: `#32608 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32608>`_
* Commit: `6475cb6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/Doctrine.git?a=commit;h=6475cb6acfd24d1e5b1db51dfc7f501d4de173a5>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Symfony.Component.Yaml
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.FLOW3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Makes account expiry work as expected
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The expiry if an account was checked in a way that left an account
enabled until after it's last day. Now it will expire exactly when
it should.

* Fixes: `#33707 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33707>`_
* Commit: `873bdd5 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=873bdd5376defbd863929258b2e52f63b8b73dbe>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix default lifetime use in cache backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the FileBackend so it actually uses the default lifetime
in cases it should do that.

ArrayAccess detection for configuration in AbstractBackend is fixed
along the way and the RedisBackend code cleaned up a little.

* Fixes: `#33562 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33562>`_
* Commit: `f22d865 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=f22d865d9d0c1bf66e65071b10398c357f21b909>`_

[TASK] Adjust to Doctrine 2.2 libraries
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the FLOW3 annotation driver and the ClassMetadata
implementation to the changes in Doctrine 2.

Also the proxy interface in Common is now used, the fixture
needs to be adjusted.

* Related: `#32608 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32608>`_
* Commit: `3f66b47 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=3f66b479bf6695a327f153154eab9359cb84ecbf>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix FLOW3 1.0 Functional Tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I introduced an error inside the functional tests in https://review.typo3.org/#change,7715
and this followup commit fixes it.

* Related: `#32830 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32830>`_
* Commit: `0736b6a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=0736b6a449cf8b055e9725710fdce274b96d9855>`_

[BUGFIX] Hint at possible exception cause
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using @MappedSuperclass without @Entity an exception is thrown.
Since FLOW3 needs the @Entity annotation even with a mapped superclass,
this change adds a hint to the exception message.

* Fixes: `#27285 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27285>`_
* Commit: `68ac2a0 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=68ac2a0194d087bd79072cb787867a7fe3acfe08>`_

[BUGFIX] ArrayMergeRecursiveOverrule does not override arrays with simple types
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the first element contains an array, and the second element contains a simple
type at a certain position, the ORIGINAL array is used. That bug prevents to reset
array in configuration for example.

A full example is given in issue #32984.

I also added first unit tests for the ArrayMergeRecursiveOverrule function.

* Fixes: `#32984 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32984>`_
* Commit: `d65fe22 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d65fe22c195a8f16b579c33c965eb2c2d2dc78c3>`_

[BUGFIX] Make updating a Doctrine Lazy Loading Proxy work
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a Doctrine lazy loading proxy is persisted again, a fatal error is thrown
because the Reflection Service cannot handle Doctrine Proxies.

We work around this issue by asking the Doctrine Entity Manager to resolve the
class name.

A Functional Test reproducing the issue is included.

* Fixes: `#32830 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32830>`_
* Commit: `d7af18a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d7af18a9d8346dc7d6395e6eb91d9de1cfe61e93>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix UriBuilder with subrequests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes the argument handling of the UriBuilder for nested
subrequests. The namespaces of all parent requests get added
recursively.

* Fixes: `#30536 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30536>`_
* Commit: `6629f53 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=6629f53025e73b73d2c04d043f561637b1fa23be>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Make PartyRepository a singleton
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The PartyRepository lacked the Scope annotation it should have had.

* Fixes: `#33600 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33600>`_
* Commit: `3df5d04 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=3df5d045ff836d7f026dde207daa111b1f4114dd>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes
