====================
1.0.5
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Change comment on RewriteBase directive
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ba9d4e9 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git?a=commit;h=ba9d4e94e8facafdf9078a89d0e0f96b417ef71f>`_

[BUGFIX] Make Settings.yaml.example a working example
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change the Settings.yaml.example can be used as is,
because the key "doctrine" is commented out now.

* Fixes: `#33410 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33410>`_
* Commit: `5fbea99 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git?a=commit;h=5fbea995fa0d15310aff0c259d332c0cd1749dd4>`_

[TASK] Update Upgrading.txt with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `c59c471 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git?a=commit;h=c59c471781d198b3746cdf5deee1e47a75e9489e>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Common
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Doctrine
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Symfony.Component.Yaml
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Action arguments of type DateTime throw Exception
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If an action argument is an object, the ValidatorResolver tries to
instantiate that object to use it as Validator without checks.

This change solves this by checking if the specified object implements
the ValidatorInterface.

* Fixes: `#35338 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/35338>`_
* Commit: `64a8f49 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=64a8f49896332e8f69c9d01ba2f6e68f0640e213>`_

[BUGFIX] Nested arrays in Annotation options are no longer dropped
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When giving a nested array of options to an annotation the rendered
form in proxy classes was cut off.

* Fixes: `#37193 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37193>`_
* Commit: `04c3486 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=04c348617735fe345087c19a5dac55192240206d>`_

[BUGFIX] HTML should be escaped in Debug Exception
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HTML in the code that is output as part of the stack trace is
escaped now.

* Fixes: `#25961 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/25961>`_
* Commit: `1c33165 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=1c3316531f1311937377d9c8a676018baaafab49>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix error message about command controller classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you create a CommandController which is not in the "Controller" directory
of a package or where the name does not end in "CommandController" you will
get an error saying "Invalid controller class name [...] 1305100019".

This change makes the error message a little more helpful.

* Fixes: `#33139 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33139>`_
* Commit: `cc72a1c <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=cc72a1c6dd12855c7d9dd43aed48db8aca0f7a03>`_

[BUGFIX] PersistenceManager->add() now requires objects being new
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The add method in repositories did also update existing entities,
this can be dangerous, as it allows an attacker to misuse creation
forms (i.e. a register form) and change existing entities.

* Fixes: `#34527 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34527>`_
* Commit: `df6b6f4 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=df6b6f457cbe2d282a7b3d857acac7987635a54d>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix Wrong exception message in Repository->remove()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The message would say add() was involved, which is wrong.

* Fixes: `#37448 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37448>`_
* Commit: `c13969e <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=c13969e78cdac842040e465871e77070a5946a18>`_

[BUGFIX] Skip functional test if Doctrine is not enabled
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Flow3AnnotationDriverTest should be skipped if Doctrine is not
enabled to prevent problems if no actual driver or connection
can be created.

* Commit: `3044312 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=304431233d823af73f894f120094b2590e645869>`_

[FEATURE] Add __toString() and make Resource use more convenient
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To use a Resource with file operations, one can use the
resource:// scheme and the __toString() method of any
ResourcePointer.

To make this a little easier, this change adds two new
methods to the Resource class:

__toString() returns the SHA1 of the ResourcePointer the
Resource is holding (as is documented for ages).

getUri() returns a ready-to-use resource://<sha1> URI of
the ResourcePointer the Resource is holding.

* Fixes: `#29694 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29694>`_
* Resolves: `#34177 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34177>`_

* Commit: `8c7ec51 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=8c7ec51b5a0e90a859c102fde6f5f0859babed1a>`_

[BUGFIX] flow3.php now uses return code from setfilepermissions.sh
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#36279 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/36279>`_
* Commit: `a0de72a <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=a0de72aa66bbed2b44c88221ab8ffbdfb810a6b2>`_

[BUGFIX] Proxy methods with referenced arguments should work
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Arguments given by reference would result in an exception if
the method was proxied due to AOP.

* Fixes: `#30914 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/30914>`_
* Fixes: `#13333 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/13333>`_

* Commit: `fed005b <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=fed005bf03d37e0ae48db565d28ca87653e9341b>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `29961d6 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=29961d6d31b442d0b44375161105ad7c03e0b807>`_

[BUGFIX] Fixes handling of numeric annotation parameters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Annotations like @FooBar(amount=2) lost their parameter value
in renderAnnotation(). This change fixes that.

* Fixes: `#33932 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33932>`_
* Commit: `1fb98a9 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=1fb98a958e7a28698997724385d78e094c8ad3a9>`_

[BUGFIX] Make flow3.bat output usage texts matching Windows
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using flow3.bat on Windows the usage information would tell the
user to call "./flow3", which doesn't fit the Windows world.

* Fixes: `#33048 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33048>`_
* Commit: `b33afd7 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=b33afd7b7190150e521f19e22c2de5b957f313c4>`_

[TASK] Add early returns to Security\\Context::hasRole
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Change the behavior of hasRole so it has an early return
when the authenticationManager is not yet authenticated
(and thus no role can be assigned to the authenticated user).

Also an earlier return on the Everyone role.

* Fixes: `#32841 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32841>`_
* Commit: `024f8fc <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=024f8fc597af78b351991780486f44f742c9ecfe>`_

[BUGFIX] Keep class doc comments when building proxies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the doc comment of a class is replaced with
"Autogenerated Proxy Class" when the proxy class is generated.
This change fixes this and keeps the original doc comment.

That is particulary useful if you rely on the original comment
when creating automatic class documentations.

* Fixes: `#34110 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34110>`_
* Commit: `465c4cb <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=465c4cbe06fa750999907d351595778f3adde96c>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fixes doc comment of Form.ValidationResultsViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The example in the class doc comment was outdated and is fixed with
this change.

* Fixes: `#31380 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31380>`_
* Commit: `a481d4a <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=a481d4ad57a2141c4ccd6d6c1385cd2bff4b51ec>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `5e72fd9 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=5e72fd95cf1f8d088553bc573b242fb9fb59e4ea>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Kickstart kickstart:model should give correct example
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#36155 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/36155>`_
* Commit: `4bd6bc2 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=4bd6bc27673eb05522f4316236f249bdc92060ca>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d6d142f <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=d6d142f23ce7bd03dddde2566dd21ff6afcca496>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] PrimaryElectronicAddress should check before adding
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With setPrimaryElectronicAddress the electronic address is also
added to the electronicAddress collection but it should check
first if it is already in to avoid creating duplicate entries.

* Fixes: `#29484 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29484>`_
* Commit: `736f2ec <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=736f2ecbe68d7d85832ff21ddc84e8cb8663b4b6>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f21f580 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=f21f580691325786ff27db6f71ce48d9ad6ee087>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix links and update "About" content
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#36580 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/36580>`_
* Commit: `d37f215 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=d37f215bb03158617c45497532477008a7a9cf34>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2116b95 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=2116b955f9ecce7741df954d07af55c0177865e6>`_

