====================
1.1.0-beta3
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Adjust release deployment descriptor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the configuration needed to push tags based on
the PUSH_TAGS environment variable and tweaks some tiny
(style) issues.

* Commit: `138dfc3 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Distributions/Base.git?a=commit;h=138dfc36418977b4c019db2fb38c1323a569a64a>`_

[TASK] Mention PhpSession configuration change in Upgrading.txt
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This informs about the PhpSession settings key change.

* Related: `#37993 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37993>`_
* Commit: `052524c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Distributions/Base.git?a=commit;h=052524c7bd296814da0af023ba77fafd35c11a89>`_

[TASK] Correct information about frozen packages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The upgrading instructions explained that packages were frozen by
default, which is no longer true.

* Commit: `c5b25bf <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Distributions/Base.git?a=commit;h=c5b25bfe8c62cf0e935c9531b2ec4f8faebdec41>`_

[TASK] Update Upgrading.txt with two more adjustments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add the needed changes for getOriginalRequestMappingResults() and
getOriginalRequest()->getArguments() to the upgrading instructions.

* Related: `#37762 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37762>`_
* Commit: `8cad35a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Distributions/Base.git?a=commit;h=8cad35ab295fe0a75f32cbdca3465a01c5769f41>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.FLOW3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e7812ee <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=e7812eef060c19dcc85d66caea43aed8d56022c6>`_

[TASK] Fix section about Resources in FLOW3 manual
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the Fluid code snippet of the resource upload example
in the Resource Management section.
Besides this adds a sample domain model to make this easier to
understand.

* Related: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `27951cf <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=27951cf889df5b82e87ba01c05083c3c688ae1a3>`_

[TASK] Documentation corrections, each minor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some additional corrections, basically typo corrections,
for the manual.

* Related: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `53227d0 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=53227d03a0aaeb15820640a58f14dae2a7b39729>`_

[TASK] Update Fluid ViewHelper reference
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds format.identifier documentation and a depreciation
notice for identity.json to the Fluid VH reference.

* Related: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `ff2fc38 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=ff2fc38d01fd04d1610d506eb96fd09032db447a>`_

[BUGFIX] Non-standard ports are now considered by HttpRequest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ports that are not 80 for HTTP or 443 for HTTPS were simply not
passed through to the Request when being created by the create()
method.

Also Uri will now set the port to 443 for HTTPS if no port is
given in the string handed to the constructor.

* Fixes: `#37770 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37770>`_
* Commit: `091a37f <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=091a37f7ab8332fe69b79df5659bf1559235099a>`_

[BUGFIX] Uri respects query and fragment even without path
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Corresponding to the appropriate RFC 3986, section 3.3
the query and fragment indeed may be present also if no
path is given.

* Fixes: `#37903 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37903>`_
* Commit: `c0a7fc5 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=c0a7fc5ce2048cc44ca0915dafaf473c479a9ede>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix recursion detection in instantiateClass
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When in ObjectManager->instantiateClass() the speedup case was
used, recursion detection would potentially fail, as it returns
early without removing the class name from the list of classes
currently being instantiated.

* Fixes: `#37997 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37997>`_
* Commit: `b898eb9 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b898eb9b2f91d8e7bf3572093ac761c6741c24ba>`_

[BUGFIX] Corrected "Uri host" regular expression
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The regular expression verifying the validity of
a host name in Uri's setHost method was of an incorrect
syntax leading to a PHP error message.
Besides correcting that, this patch adds a Test to
proof the intended functionality.

* Fixes: `#37554 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37554>`_
* Commit: `4257fae <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=4257faebb635394c9b0bff1d6139be147be5975f>`_

[BUGFIX] Property Mapper chokes on already-converted objects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This happens for example when using the TYPO3.Form Project with a DatePicker,
which already transforms the value to the correct data type.

* Fixes: `#36988 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/36988>`_
* Commit: `c2caff2 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=c2caff2490ee39b6b5c032fe713c315f72e00e7a>`_

[FEATURE] Configuration validation through (adapted) JSON Schema
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implementation of a PHP array schema validator modeled using the
JSON Schema specification as guideline.

The following CLI commands which utilize the validator are provided:

- configuration:validate validates the configuration of a certain type
  with respect to the provided schemata. The schema files are searched
  for in Resources/Private/Schema of all active packages.

- configuration:generateschema is a kickstarter which generates a basic
  schema to be used as a starting point for further adjustments

Furthermore, this change includes schemata for all FLOW3 settings and the other
configuration types (Caches, Objects, Policy and Routes).

* Resolves: `#31277 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31277>`_
* Commit: `37145b1 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=37145b1f83e3828095f2b584ecc02a0eed3cb551>`_

[BUGFIX] Correctly implement validator resolver short notation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently, the short notation for validators which has been introduced
with Id807dbfa78ae1388aa8cd53bfc578893eade427c does only support syntax
like TYPO3\\FLOW3:EmailAddress; but we should rather support TYPO3.FLOW3:EmailAddress
as this is how we use package keys at all other places which are not PHP code.

* Fixes: `#38154 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38154>`_
* Related: `#33862 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33862>`_

* Commit: `ead2734 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=ead273410f52ae50390c20116e0826e9186b60a4>`_

[TASK] Add note to View chapter about default model properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This note should be made seen the confusion around fixing #35894

* Related: `#35894 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/35894>`_
* Commit: `70b26b8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=70b26b8f633114611a93158ae81da13e09887c51>`_

[BUGFIX] Make baseUri setting work for resource publishing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The baseUri setting was not observed in the filesystem resource
publisher.

* Fixes: `#37550 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37550>`_
* Commit: `f75c243 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=f75c243edf5e1a0de222e8dc6f930bfc5d020b62>`_

[BUGFIX] Use exception handling framework for CommandController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The CommandRequestHandler brought its own tiny exception handling
with the main drawback exceptions not being logged anymore, unlike
the Error\\AbstractExceptionHandler features.

When handling a CommandRequest, a dedicated CommandExceptionHandler
is involved, taking care of occuring exceptions.

* Fixes: `#37995 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37995>`_
* Commit: `a54ebdb <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=a54ebdb9b8f70986aacb96248601596b41e1f152>`_

[BUGFIX] Internal Request Engine needs to clear security context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to get the security tokens matching the new request created
in the internal request engine, the security context should be cleared
using the "clearContext" method. This means that the tokens will be
matched with the configuration from the routing based on the new request
and not the parent request.

This patch also contains a small enhancement which adds two additional
headers to the virtual browser's response containing the code and message
of a possible exception.

* Fixes: `#37377 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37377>`_
* Commit: `ec51212 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=ec5121249cf900fac1675014b3c5eaf445db5e39>`_

[TASK] Update code migration to do two more fixes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds adjustments for getOriginalRequestMappingResults() and
getOriginalRequest()->getArguments().

* Resolves: `#37762 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37762>`_
* Commit: `8ee6404 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=8ee6404b73c77b8f25ab651d5617205fd7b559ad>`_

[TASK] Refactor constructor argument of ExceptionHandler implementors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Moves the redundant constructor method of each AbstractExceptionHandler
implementor to the AbstractExceptionHandler itself.

* Resolves: `#38002 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38002>`_
* Commit: `1f3cdea <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=1f3cdea0960f6abd0f4fb6b1bee0e63b65e2c8b7>`_

[TASK] Fix markup errors in FLOW3 manual
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes another markup issue resulting in rendering
glitches.

* Resolves: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `e3039f6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=e3039f6849ef2e681582bb7c0d6987c2a1d08933>`_

[TASK] Fix markup errors in FLOW3 manual
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a number of markup issues resulting in rendering
glitches.

* Resolves: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `174cf9c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=174cf9c0228ee01f7d0f90b23af4b2961e4ef48a>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove unused configuration option from settings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes a no longer used/supported option from the
shipped Development configuration.

* Fixes: `#37966 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37966>`_
* Commit: `cb2e18d <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=cb2e18d1859b26aa06e360e994b7124ae23df1cd>`_

[BUGFIX] Discourage people to expose anything but the Web folder
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates the Quickstart to explicitly push people into using Web
as the document root for their web server.

* Fixes: `#38016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38016>`_
* Commit: `b62de73 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b62de73c2eb7b1231a94ebd28e8e89892494877c>`_

[TASK] Update templating chapter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Along with some style and markup tweaks this adds details
on XML namespace declaration and XSD generation.

* Resolves: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `9300c10 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=9300c1013f23100969bf45023d9e1bdff4f2f4c8>`_

[TASK] Update validation chapter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Along with some style and markup tweaks this moves some sections
around and adds details on avoiding recursive/duplicate validation.

* Resolves: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `4e9ebe2 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=4e9ebe29f3df59dc9e3a5c6f1c2fda3a256065d4>`_

[TASK] Update object management chapter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates the section on custom factories.

* Resolves: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `57a5d13 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=57a5d13c61f4a4ca1849e2692de64d8a314db76d>`_

[TASK] Update persistence chapter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some layout/markup tweaks and removed some outdated parts about
the generic PDO persistence we had earlier. Also explain identity
and value object handling in more detail.

* Resolves: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `f1bda0b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=f1bda0b8e6bf1bfade6a47ac52ec29366f88b1a4>`_

[TASK] Update FLOW3 manual
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes the glossary and colophon from the guide
and applies mostly markup changes to various parts.

* Resolves: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `f661930 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=f66193005cb83dcc90151a4b806afba4ca893b14>`_

[TASK] Session handling documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#37668 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37668>`_
* Commit: `63b7c09 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=63b7c09ce4964e7d09013a7ee4d3b95dba6693c2>`_

[TASK] Update Security Framework chapter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Quick update of the Security Framework chapter to reflect recent
changes in FLOW3. Also some minor spelling error fixes.

* Resolves: `#37672 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37672>`_
* Commit: `3e918ee <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=3e918ee71059ea3b36885d599fe38d1fa6e2fde6>`_

[BUGFIX] Make PhpSession read settings from "PhpSession"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The settings for the PhpSession are read from the key "PhpSession" now,
to ensure consistency. Before that they were read from "PHPSession".

You should adjust your settings, but for backwards compatibility
settings from "PHPSession" will still be used if present.

* Fixes: `#37993 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37993>`_
* Commit: `8a9619a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=8a9619abb8404ce98a86d8d267043530d349c1ee>`_

[TASK] Make validator resolver public API
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

People should use it when validation is used in custom code instead of
creating validators using new; thus the ValidatorResolver must be marked
as public API.

* Resolves: `#37665 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37665>`_
* Commit: `b00d9cc <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=b00d9cc046c2e5ea8f859e191a4dcc99ac4f59fc>`_

[TASK] Documentation of Validation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#37666 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37666>`_
* Commit: `394f188 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=394f1884d2c496eee6d94a7736205daf3d197b66>`_

[TASK] document utility functions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#37669 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37669>`_
* Commit: `ac4d62a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=ac4d62af08724fe21871676f83d06586cb0c4e9d>`_

[TASK] improve Property Mapping Documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#37664 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37664>`_
* Commit: `95a686c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=95a686c03dd57ca3f98a501ceca4fd310f71f241>`_

[TASK] Tiny docblock fix in DoctrineCommandController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f6e8532 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=f6e85325ca88c65e5b20d52c0b34fdb6271f9a53>`_

[BUGFIX] Purge Doctrine proxies that are no longer needed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change the proxy target directory is emptied before
Doctrine proxies are (re)built, removing outdated proxy classes.

This solves fatal errors when (proxied) classes are removed, and
thus can no longer be found when referenced from their heirs.

* Fixes: `#26903 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/26903>`_
* Commit: `13220e0 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=13220e0e23602d7a70e2ffdf1ebd1928a300d040>`_

[BUGFIX] Packages can be frozen in Development only
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Freezing packages was not possible in other contexts than Development
with the related commands. But if a package was frozen according to
PackageStates.php, it would advertise itself as frozen in all contexts.

While this did not seem to have any real effects, it caused confusing
output with the cache:flush command in Production context.

This change makes the Package class ignore the frozen state in any
context except Development and adds a check in the freezePackage()
method of the PackageManager.

* Fixes: `#37223 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37223>`_
* Commit: `3bfddf0 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=3bfddf0331b9a7df4272d367f104975ea5a118e4>`_

[TASK] No longer freeze packages by default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the possible pitfalls with frozen packages, no packages will be frozen
by default. This way a developer has to learn about frozen packages before he
can be confronted with them (and their pitfalls).

* Resolves: `#37726 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37726>`_
* Commit: `977ba8e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=977ba8e14cf080be32f5d51527f7f1dcec1917da>`_

[TASK] Add validator reference to the FLOW3 guide
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `bc34734 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=bc3473461a6fc062962b00310368e90f66fb119b>`_

[TASK] Add CLI command reference to guide
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a reference for the CLI commands in the FLOW3
base distribution.

* Commit: `932d713 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=932d7135b2da8a4c1d2bcf5a5362ac46236d48ce>`_

[TASK] Add contributors list
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `74671a3 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=74671a3c2d2ba512e8c10f73783dbb65a0423d19>`_

[TASK] Update Fluid ViewHelper reference
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change updates the Fluid VH reference and does some tiny
tweaks along the way.

* Commit: `42e16cf <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=42e16cff73fc5918fab2d9b1f195199154e19239>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for FLOW3 1.0.5
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d88b1df <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d88b1df97d61ea21e9f58accf58c504d62ee3783>`_

[BUGFIX] Integrity constraint violation deleting resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have two resources using the same resource pointer,
deleting a Resource will trigger deletion of the
connected ResourcePointer which then leads to an integrity
constraint violation.

This patch tells doctrine NOT to cascade delete operations.
This will lead to orphan resource-pointers which have to
be deleted manually or on a regular base.

* Fixes: `#34448 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34448>`_
* Commit: `8b383f6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=8b383f621e0c3a91a39d13b5b677476d71c24d2d>`_

[BUGFIX] Nested arrays in Annotation options are no longer dropped
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When giving a nested array of options to an annotation the rendered
form in proxy classes was cut off.

* Fixes: `#37193 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37193>`_
* Commit: `62053eb <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=62053eb7fce82f961bbdbbb2752e58c37223e71d>`_

[TASK] Some tiny tweaks to the 1.1.0b2 changelog
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `98b914a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=98b914afee089823869802669fb8c41f5c250299>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for FLOW3 1.1.0-beta2
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `fa870e2 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=fa870e26b7263e3b12f102ec18d826aa57178dad>`_

[TASK] Make extending GenericObjectValidator easier
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change moves the check for already validated objects out
of the isValid() method and into validate() instead. Since in
custom validators isValid() is the method to implement, this
makes correct implementation less error-prone.

* Related: `#37363 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37363>`_
* Commit: `fdc462b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=fdc462b04fe21bb35e08191d659f0ccf004849e7>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `a8b5832 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=a8b58323292ee09529a5cb2cd6fc55b7d7c91f21>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unusable checkbox/radio if formObject is NULL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using a form object inside of a form view helper inside an index
action template and a checkbox is referring to a property $sth of
$someFormObject, the form object can be NULL with code like::

 indexAction(\\Some\\Type $someFormObject = NULL){ ... }

 <f:form ... object="{someFormObject}">
  <f:form.checkbox property="{sth}" value="yes" checked="{sth.value} == yes"/>
 </f:form>

Initially calling the index action makes someFormObject NULL. If the submitted
form had validation errors someFormObject is NULL, too. This possibility
was ignored in a call for the formObject from within the CheckboxViewHelper as
well as from the RadioViewHelper.

So you would get an exception telling you:

	No value found for key "TYPO3\\Fluid\\ViewHelpers\\FormViewHelper->formObject"

This change fixes that bug and thus also sets the checkbox and radio
"checked" attribute properly when a validation error occurred.

* Fixes: `#35894 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/35894>`_
* Commit: `dec3b18 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=dec3b187b6db773a5a84dec70918c22f428cb994>`_

[BUGFIX] hidden fields should be rendered in extra section
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently form.select and form.checkbox ViewHelpers render
hidden fields before the actual input field in order to
force submission of a value.
This leads to the situation that labels wrapped around the
field do not correspond to the actual form field, but to
the hidden field.
This is fixed by letting the form ViewHelper taking care of
rendering the requried hidden fields in the already existing
section on top of the form.

* Fixes: `#26481 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/26481>`_
* Fixes: `#13342 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/13342>`_

* Commit: `9f01a42 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=9f01a42dc97a85f22a08c4d7ca75405fe1e75557>`_

[FEATURE] Add a ViewHelper for entity identifier retrieval
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a ViewHelper "format.identifier" that returns
the plain identifier for a given entity.

* Resolves: `#33494 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33494>`_
* Commit: `85bca32 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=85bca3221ba3150baf59f8fd9ccd1f9e7732f02f>`_

[BUGFIX] ViewHelper exceptions should not be caught in testing context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

While it is correct that ViewHelper exceptions are silently logged in
production context, they should be displayed in development and testing
context; and not only in development context.

* Fixes: `#37671 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37671>`_
* Commit: `5a75ed8 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=5a75ed885661b11d73715acc82922936b438f0b1>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `6efcb5a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=6efcb5a4ee49d26c4691f4e44be9b2e3bd91bde3>`_

[TASK] Code cleanup
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Does cleanup to code documentation.

* Related: `#34875 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34875>`_
* Commit: `57f4099 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=57f4099b65a8e269748cf44b1b4b0c45b3ba71e9>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `feb68d1 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=feb68d11bcf380d33bcbf59bcb7b367609304d14>`_

[TASK] Code cleanup
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tweaks a single constructor docblock.

* Related: `#34875 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34875>`_
* Commit: `8d04ec5 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=8d04ec579623233576ad77c2b8316cfd106ee0cb>`_

[TASK] Adjust validators to avoid validating more than needed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#34154 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34154>`_
* Commit: `8646019 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=864601991b49bed50303601b1859345dee86227e>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `09229df <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=09229df2adb1897c248c50593d82b0abb5bfd7fe>`_

