====================
1.1.0-rc1
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update upgrading instructions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds instructions to replace DataNotSerializeableException with
DataNotSerializableException.

* Commit: `0bfbf2e <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git?a=commit;h=0bfbf2e6f74133225ea530fec477dc336760d4bb>`_

[TASK] Disable test timeout when using PHP_Invoker
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

when PHP_Invoker is installed, PHPUnit will by default only let a test
run for one second. This kills most of our functional tests when being
run in this setup.

Setting this default value to 0 (undefined) fixes the problem.

* Commit: `ce42ca6 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/Common.git?a=commit;h=ce42ca6fd9b372f4009c8778edd49ae5ce72efbb>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Doctrine.Common
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Doctrine.DBAL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Doctrine.ORM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Symfony.Component.DomCrawler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Symfony.Component.Yaml
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2e7f224 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=2e7f224c3fb4c838b8b505ed8d0383c83061edc1>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix wrong check in atomic writes code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a wrong check in Cache\\FileBackend and RsaWalletServicePhp
as well as a bunch of one-line if blocks.

* Fixes: `#27989 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27989>`_
* Related: `#34875 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34875>`_

* Commit: `3664972 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=3664972e8be221277fd3443efb7c41cb4d9ed6dc>`_

[!!!][TASK] Minor typo corrections in code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This trivially corrects some typos in code.

As a consequence, the DataNotSerializeableException was renamed
to DataNotSerializableException.

* Commit: `fec3f04 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=fec3f046d336725bcbdbe39212ef313ec90d4552>`_

[TASK] Remove trailing colon from example headlines
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It just looked weird this way…

* Related: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Commit: `bfeeb2a <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=bfeeb2ad9584902081c8b1aa5d587001d6ca4c52>`_

[TASK] Add "Essential Design Patterns" to the guide
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Re-uses some AOP verbage from part III of the guide.

* Related: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Related: `#27561 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27561>`_

* Commit: `94d73f3 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=94d73f3a914df16882f2a6e84917178a768cc8f1>`_

[TASK] Document Routing feature "appendExceedingArguments"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#35394 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/35394>`_
* Commit: `833f676 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=833f676ee146ce5a7b1626c83440cca47d06b058>`_

[BUGFIX] IdentityRoutePart should accept identity array
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IdentityRoutePart::matchValue() returns an identity array in
the format array('__identity' => '<Identifier>') (see #37403).

This change ajusts resolveValue() to accept arrays in that
format, too.
This is required for widgets that fetch arguments from the
current request and pass them to the UriBuilder.

* Resolves: `#38404 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38404>`_
* Commit: `bd08fb9 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=bd08fb9999a31a8f76173f7b31d6660ce14e4905>`_

[TASK] Adjust filename spelling to match rest of package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#35298 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/35298>`_
* Commit: `f310050 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=f310050e8b51bb977413762cb7593256f38ba6b0>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix code documentation of DatetimeParser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The parser code documentation would state the parse methods
expect \\DateTime instances, but in fact strings are expected.

* Fixes: `#34050 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34050>`_
* Commit: `b51a56b <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=b51a56b7e3be08d2667eb1db399f6fd91a28f73f>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix Objects.yaml className example in guide
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The guide still stated that setting className in Objects.yaml
was possible for classes, but it works only for interfaces.

* Fixes: `#37648 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37648>`_
* Commit: `3de0e72 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=3de0e728f9d91bc83ce03ff9051fd0f370cad27e>`_

[TASK] Add "Architectural Overview" to the guide
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Based on the introduction from the old DocBook manual,
tweaked and amended.

* Resolves: `#29266 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/29266>`_
* Commit: `a56ac99 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=a56ac99b15a86aa1c9aedb57f78c32780368539a>`_

[TASK] Provide conventions for ids in XLIFF files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#32606 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32606>`_
* Commit: `70f5662 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=70f56623582d1a203a358c2785b0eaee04570058>`_

[TASK] Update and link CGL on one page
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#36651 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/36651>`_
* Commit: `fc2d196 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=fc2d196907bc4d68221cc4b6d92d09480b68cacb>`_

[TASK] Show up hints for nesting inline ViewHelpers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a section with some examples about how to nest
and use inline ViewHelpers.
Besides, it does some minor typo and formatting corrections.

* Resolves: `#34749 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34749>`_
* Commit: `70457ec <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=70457ec8d7d9aae57221d4c7dccbcddb2c3d156d>`_

[BUGFIX] Log route values if a route can't be resolved
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This re-introduces logging if a route could not be resolved.
This behaviour was lost with I9605731f78cb1be9b0fb5c439d7149a676b6ccb7

* Related: `#38172 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38172>`_
* Commit: `0d3440f <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=0d3440fc74be4f49628dd0c71aa8ba121e1083a1>`_

[TASK] Update "CGL on one page"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#36651 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/36651>`_
* Commit: `2e85be9 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=2e85be9b40c89c5393f2ea77784fc2759c802bc9>`_

[TASK] Add context information to cache clearing commands
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the flow3:cache:flush commands only the current
cli context is cleared. This is not clear when using the
commands and this change add the context information
to the command output.

* Resolves: `#38221 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38221>`_
* Commit: `1ba1631 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=1ba1631bd5b21ac3fa62341bc90d8f6f9bd281c2>`_

[TASK] Code cleanup
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Does code cleanup, mostly to documentation, but also tweaks
unused variables, missing return statements and similar things.

* Related: `#34875 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34875>`_
* Commit: `02647e4 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=02647e4dc260e2c993eab3d88d34f3b364042c8d>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `838fe96 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=838fe96829086a485b243badf059dcbbf9327883>`_

[TASK] Some tiny tweaks to the 1.1.0b3 changelog
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `fd417d6 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=fd417d6e91d92741db5c3fbfdc7a55a448b0e4a4>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for FLOW3 1.1.0-beta3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8da82b2 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=8da82b23127b0e99907374fbcdb96ca904d0386f>`_

[BUGFIX] Only map file uploads to arguments if not empty
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the HTTP request converts the FILES superglobal
to request arguments even if no file has been uploaded.
This leads to an exception when submitting a form without
uploading a file because the property mapper receives a
corrupt source array in that case.

This adjust the HTTP request to only map values from the
FILES superglobal to arguments if a file has been uploaded.

This also tweaks the ResourceTypeConverter to accept
an empty source. Besides the converter now only outputs
filer errors (for too large or corrupt files) to the user.
Server errors (e.g. non-existing/read-only tmp directory)
are logged to the systemLogger.

* Fixes: `#38184 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38184>`_
* Commit: `4441c3c <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=4441c3cb94079e602bcfbebc3c7e10cb95d32b53>`_

[BUGFIX] Inform about possible cause for "No class schema found"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When mapping meta data for Doctrine an error about "No class schema
found for …" could occur. It would not tell in what model the mapping
was taking place, leaving the user to guesswork. This adds output
of the currently examined class to the exception.

* Fixes: `#37547 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37547>`_
* Commit: `82e8f43 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=82e8f439859418654723011431c4a3ed8f2a5a6c>`_

[BUGFIX] Routing cache only works for one request
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the routing uses a TransientMemory cache backend by
default. Besides, objects in the routing values are converted
to hashes using spl_object_hash() - which generates a new hash
for every request.

This change configures the RouterCachingAspect to use a
SimpleFile cache backend and adjusts the aspect to use the
persistence manager in order to convert objects to their
identifiers before creating cache entries.

This also adds a signal to the FunctionalTestCase base
class that flushes the routing caches on teardown.

Furthermore this adds two convenience methods
getLastMatchedRoute() and getLastResolvedRoute() to the router
which should make debugging and testing easier.

* Fixes: `#38172 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38172>`_
* Commit: `de4ea73 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=de4ea73dc015b18d7e2ed887e66d3d49a3ccc8bd>`_

[BUGFIX] Property mapper should distinguish between error and NULL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently, when a nested type converter returns NULL, this is silently
caught by the property mapper. Thus, it is not possible to reset e.g.
an integer value to NULL again.

This change fixes that behavior, and adds a functional test for it.

* Related: `#35136 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/35136>`_
* Commit: `ca4ef91 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git?a=commit;h=ca4ef91cee2ecb84fa8d8abcd24418a1e83d3c16>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2a9e2f2 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=2a9e2f2fe2fe71b52860a33a6fa009fbe8cab0b7>`_

[TASK] Add query parameters for form action as hidden fields
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes the form viewhelper usable with method GET by adding
query parameters of the action as hidden fields to the form. Otherwise
the browser would replace them by the form values
(http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/interact/forms.html#h-17.13.3.4).

* Resolves: `#11636 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/11636>`_
* Commit: `0c8ef04 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=0c8ef04ce86582e4eea8a702b3f4a90c9d639227>`_

[BUGFIX] Only render hidden upload fields if a resource is available
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The UploadViewHelper always creates hidden fields for filename and
resource pointer so that previously uploaded files are not lost
if validation errors occur.

This change makes sure that those hidden fields are only rendered
if a file has been uploaded before because otherwise the property
mapper tries to create a Resource object and fails with an
exception (see #38184).

* Related: `#38184 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38184>`_
* Commit: `ecc4f01 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=ecc4f01ead99f3993bd3908d974485e2c65dd080>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `40a283f <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=40a283fb44865efde9d36645130eae7c15b85f72>`_

[TASK] Code cleanup
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Does code cleanup, mostly to documentation, but also tweaks
unused variables, missing return statements and similar things.

* Related: `#34875 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34875>`_
* Commit: `ad4ed84 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=ad4ed8417fd8e3897c417e168898557e7989f6e6>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7c65b11 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=7c65b111bf6b2d0b1501e26b9124cf3c4f832de3>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `c96108a <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=c96108a799dbac24d228a21a6e370d421d655ce7>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `45afa0b <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=45afa0ba497770ed12fcfbc4c2c8477c34fb7b7d>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `80b82d4 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=80b82d4e979cd7e787339572abb080260d7726d8>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4c4f158 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=4c4f158101c4d572344f4f1335bbd65e956e393d>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d3a82c0 <http://git.typo3.org/Flow/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=d3a82c0edc1f34e65b54b3edfbc08fc0dbc35a45>`_

