====================
1.1.0-rc2
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `78b8a86 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=78b8a86f1467e0f0c36bcd16cbfe4d94a58d5b98>`_

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates command, type converter and Fluid VH references.

Counterpart to If61f27e9f55a42fc7fd0d10eb87b644f946aef7c.

* Commit: `e9e3779 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=e9e377903a8698e78314029845e5aef9eaafc6bd>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix broken links StandardView template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The links pointed to URLs no longer working.

* Fixes: `#39062 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/39062>`_
* Commit: `167b85e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=167b85e487ab3619c9200c5c47599d4f8e3693c9>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Correct RepositoryInterface
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a docblock and adds __call() to the interface (thus the breaking
change flag), because everyone probably would expect it to be there.

* Fixes: `#38840 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38840>`_
* Commit: `d2ea90a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=d2ea90ac1c02d5bb63cdc3f8d1ac38041e5bee22>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Fix return values of Doctrine\\Repository magic methods
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Overrides __call from EntityRepository to make the methods return
the expected QueryResultInterface. Also adds support for countBy().

This is marked as a breaking change because if you relied on the
specific return values before, you need to adjust your code.

Along the way the code inside __call() is simplified.

* Fixes: `#38841 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38841>`_
* Commit: `53049d6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=53049d6c5f12450292bd8b7ec6a4c8264c858066>`_

[BUGFIX] Have Doctrine\\Repository::findAll() return a QueryResult
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes the behavior of Doctrine\\Repository consistent and
allows the use of findAll() e.g. in combination with widgets.

With this change, findAll() also observes the default ordering
of a repository.

* Fixes: `#35035 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/35035>`_
* Fixes: `#38381 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38381>`_

* Commit: `9365812 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=936581210737b8f0dd05a7f4e94b283740194418>`_

[TASK] Correct typos in Coding Guidelines
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This corrects some typos in PartV/CodingGuidelines of the
documentation.

* Related: `#27561 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27561>`_
* Commit: `219d22c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=219d22c83b7c3ae2027468abdc597154d2ecc9b4>`_

[BUGFIX] Injections only on last level of class hierarchy
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Property injections are no longer called for every level of your
class hierarchy, which means they are only executed once now.

* Fixes: `#31179 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31179>`_
* Commit: `9ca9ac5 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=9ca9ac545a9a874075bc908a1b07365fb3420f5d>`_

[BUGFIX] Skip abstract classes in ensureAggregateRootInheritanceChainConsistency
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using an abstract base class for domain models, the checks done in
ensureAggregateRootInheritanceChainConsistency() would fail, even though
it is fine to have an abstract base class not being aggregate root.

* Fixes: `#31522 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31522>`_
* Commit: `c01cc4a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=c01cc4a20553c585b4afc926e5563143aaffc93b>`_

[TASK] Add annotation reference to documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#38669 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38669>`_
* Commit: `ec458ee <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=ec458ee69fc5a6cde665027e32bb0f6121ed2055>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix order of monitoring and proxy building
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

During bootstrap file monitoring would be run too late,
so that while change detection worked fine, the results
were not used correctly: Reflection data was updated,
but that happened after DI proxy building, so that e.g.
added Inject annotations would not have the expected
effect.

This change moves file monitoring before reflection
initialization to fix this.

* Fixes: `#37574 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37574>`_
* Commit: `2b09113 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=2b09113f409dc67c756c60fd6cf19ca1032c252e>`_

[TASK] Document configuration validation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#38680 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38680>`_
* Commit: `736c7c4 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=736c7c4f5789c09d810a645bbba221e0b8f25415>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow PublishingConfiguration to be persisted
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Any resource publishing configuration attached to a resource could
not be persisted, because the needed mapping information for
Doctrine was missing and the target type of the relation was an
interface.

This change adds an AbstractPublishingConfiguration and the needed
annotations, plus a schema migration.

* Fixes: `#32826 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/32826>`_
* Commit: `31f2559 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=31f255997d8f9f2c0437a104ac430b3efc0597e2>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove f:uri.resource title parameter in Guide
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The resource management documentation described a title parameter
for the ResourceViewHelper that ceased to exist a long time ago.

* Fixes: `#38382 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38382>`_
* Commit: `f9f3a4f <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=f9f3a4fb66abb3aaf24ac6c737f264a7fb6ea776>`_

[TASK] Add TypeConverter reference
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tweaks the DateTimeConverter docblock to be proper reST.

* Resolves: `#38646 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38646>`_
* Commit: `af7eb9e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=af7eb9e9d64a257d5865037592e24d7c717e9148>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix timezone override side effect in DateTimeConverter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Specifying a timezone override in DateTimeConverter would lead to
wrong times due to the timezone being applied to the finished date
instance, not upon creation.

* Fixes: `#35369 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/35369>`_
* Commit: `195ec43 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=195ec432616c2e790b8d6421c9551b89cdd2fa2b>`_

[TASK] Create Reflection manual page
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#38561 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38561>`_
* Commit: `7c36835 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=7c368357656e7d02506f8204b3dda8fba8e0d0ae>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix indentation in "Contributing to FLOW3"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#38884 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38884>`_
* Commit: `227aaac <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=227aaacf13299d025c0f542507a9b4e2f543b4bd>`_

[TASK] Add documentation to annotation classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#38669 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38669>`_
* Related: `#34875 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34875>`_

* Commit: `51a4e2c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=51a4e2c973e9e592fced81e526015217bf3ed1d6>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix use of Target in annotation classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#38667 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38667>`_
* Commit: `280003f <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=280003f29746167f771064008f6bfa0cb95fd97b>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust execute bit on some files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the execute bit (and setfilepermissions.sh) so that
no differences are created when setting permissions on a fresh
clone.

* Fixes: `#36049 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/36049>`_
* Commit: `272893a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=272893adddf7bdd4ae979edac7652180f6c97fba>`_

[TASK] Clean up some code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes some comments, style issues and API usage.

* Related: `#37574 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37574>`_
* Related: `#34875 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/34875>`_

* Commit: `8e393d3 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=8e393d38794c3da3201562dede34649215a99626>`_

[FEATURE] Support tearDown for functional tests in generic persistence
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implement a tearDown method in the generic persistence according to the
Doctrine PersistenceManager. The call is delegated to the underlying
backend.

* Resolves: `#38785 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38785>`_
* Commit: `8996d94 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=8996d94c01686d010749448351b274be945edbbf>`_

[BUGFIX] MemcachedBackendTest fail
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MemcachedBackendTest doesn't use TYPO3\\FLOW3\\Core\\ApplicationContext
to initialize MemcacheBackend.

* Fixes: `#38713 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38713>`_
* Commit: `00ff17e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=00ff17ef1149bdfa6df5fed07d06d94bd51280bb>`_

[BUGFIX] Reset InternalRequestEngine for each functional test
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently all functional tests share the same instance of
\\TYPO3\\FLOW3\\Mvc\\Routing\\Router because the InternalRequestEngine
is of scope singleton.
This leads to unexpected results and failing tests if tests add
custom routes.

This change fixes this by making the ObjectManager forget the
singleton instance of the request engine after each testrun.
This also reverts the changes that were introduced with
I5a5bf17d00c5be05748a18122dae42989f429221 as they did not
have the expected effect.

* Fixes: `#38435 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38435>`_
* Commit: `06e2108 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=06e21083c4f806973bcb1176d6ae74bd473a6ffc>`_

[BUGFIX] BaseUri contains default HTTPS port
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By resolving #37770 now the BaseUri and thus the base tag when
using <f:base /> contains the HTTP port if it's not equal to 80.

This adjusts Request and Uri to omit the port if it is equal to
443 and the request scheme is https.

* Fixes: `#38547 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38547>`_
* Related: `#37770 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37770>`_

* Commit: `fc7b877 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=fc7b877445e9172639663f461d2410f157f5fc5d>`_

[TASK] Add "Introduction" to the guide
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Added introduction section for the guide.

* Related: `#38037 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38037>`_
* Related: `#27561 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27561>`_

* Commit: `efe74d5 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=efe74d516d0c82994f28adc1e0867b9be1a74027>`_

[TASK] Functional tests for Routing Framework
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds testing routes to the provided Testing/Routes.yaml
file and adds tests covering mathing and resolving of
arbitrary routes.

* Resolves: `#37608 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37608>`_
* Commit: `593f84a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=593f84a214b8ac1f432681d2aa74872b86857ea4>`_

[BUGFIX] Correct a code migration's class name
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A code migration class name didn't match its file name,
this patch corrects this.

* Fixes: `#38442 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38442>`_
* Commit: `e175c52 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=e175c5223f352ed9a60cd3f6c91562736288459e>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `03bacc6 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=03bacc61e5de2a9f65698f17b7f137097eaede61>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for FLOW3 1.1.0-rc1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8bb3a97 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=8bb3a97b763ff014fbe270a32b4a8d17a8149ff0>`_

[BUGFIX] Reset the router for each functional test
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently all functional tests share the same instance of
\\TYPO3\\FLOW3\\Mvc\\Routing\\Router because the InternalRequestEngine
is of scope singleton.
This leads to unexpected results and failing tests if tests add
custom routes.

This change fixes this by reinitializing the request engine for
each test case that has testableHttpEnabled set to TRUE.

* Fixes: `#38435 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38435>`_
* Commit: `fe1e420 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.FLOW3.git?a=commit;h=fe1e420c73c06d19d3ebef13872237db652ff3e7>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `6613e1e <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=6613e1ed236ee6a8653bcfe84b2677ae37ae7a70>`_

[TASK] Correct StripTags test because of unintended incompletion result
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A test's data provider's method name began with the character sequence
'test', was hence regarded as test to be executed.
This resulted into an "Incomplete" result when running the tests.

* Commit: `492a8da <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=492a8daa397c66d2b7f07082f7d583a1a969ad66>`_

[BUGFIX] Replace placeholders in fallback for id translation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using id based translation and no translation is defined in XLIFF,
the tag value is used as a fallback in TranslateViewHelper.

With this change, the fallback is passed to label based translation,
making placeholder replacement work also if no translation does exist
yet.

* Fixes: `#37387 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37387>`_
* Commit: `a4a939c <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=a4a939cbecd9f15b2bdb3e864b84f81a41371450>`_

[BUGFIX] Make use of dashes in attribute names possible
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using e.g. data-foo in VH tags, the parser would choke. This
change fixes this.

* Fixes: `#38592 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38592>`_
* Commit: `049704f <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=049704f0f77cdae986c03d8ca435013425c15881>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove (wrong) use of Internal annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The internal annotation is used to declare command methods
as internal, not to mark things as not being public API.

Furthermore, it is not allowed to be used on properties
and with #38667 fixed Fluid would cause exceptions.

* Related: `#38667 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38667>`_
* Commit: `7e68ea4 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=7e68ea46467ec978c0bd54c25632582690eca6c2>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove eval from StandaloneViewTest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the use of eval from the StandaloneViewTest so that
now a Fixture class is used that extends the StandaloneView.

* Fixes: `#38873 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/38873>`_
* Related: `#31179 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31179>`_

* Commit: `73c686b <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=73c686b0ff4710e2a89f30a526f9bdb132723f95>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `a479713 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git?a=commit;h=a479713a1f737e8cdb2b0d94eb2bbe4840814808>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `45931af <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=45931af82d389dd29374f2ed322b2e73d0d43b79>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `fb00dfc <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git?a=commit;h=fb00dfcbcb1ea28782c524aff96ca82f32b1d6b0>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `6b182c1 <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=6b182c15903ee80ac6f01158929d75128cfe3261>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `436c90f <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git?a=commit;h=436c90f382bc1e857115d8a3cfeb7372629069f6>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `97b935a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=97b935a91b05b40b88f18824c8a9d7dd2e95b52f>`_

[TASK] Update Package.xml with new version number
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `cb90a4a <http://git.typo3.org/FLOW3/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git?a=commit;h=cb90a4ad9ca410102b929eca3ea895283ac3a5c1>`_

