====================
2.1.2
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Add phpunit/phpunit as dev requirement
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8d57cbb <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/8d57cbb66f06b06816aeeb421aedb71abe178d20>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/16/

* Commit: `8a2a0a7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8a2a0a7a2bd5cda4ad529b821e7d8320c5ebf00c>`_

[TASK] Fix intermittent failure in SessionTest unit test
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By injecting a system logger mock, the test for GC that would fail at
random should now run reliably.

Along this the test tweaks the code (style) a bit.

* Commit: `def9a77 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/def9a772167d442ce063be985557fd1f3d2f25e9>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent invocation of protected controller methods
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently any method with an "Action" suffix is callable via the
default request handling if a corresponding route exists.

For the fallback routes provided by Flow this is the case for the
``initialize*Action()`` methods that are called before the actual
action invocation.

This change adds a check for the visibility of an action method
and only allows invocation of public methods.

* Fixes: `#57410 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57410>`_
* Commit: `b358926 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b358926fde3f0cded32d0adaea039785c11fcb80>`_

[BUGFIX] SlaveRequestHandler must not ignore QUIT command
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``SlaveRequestHandler`` listens for a "QUIT\\n" command but
it trims the input first, removing the newline character.

* Commit: `cfda873 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/cfda873a9cd232b393e55c5576bca55cc4e3c9dc>`_

[TASK] Clarify documentation for AOP method() and class()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add some hints regarding matching on interfaces.

* Commit: `d2bfbd4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d2bfbd4ecc38b203b6f89c248f6f36dbdef6385c>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix resolving of imported collection types
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change extends the ReflectionService so that it is able to
expand our custom notation for collection types::

 CollectionType<ElementType>

Background:

In the Coding Guidelines we encourage developers to import namespaces
in order to increase readability.

With #46008 the ReflectionService is able to resolve relative and
imported namespace (with #50909 this also works for abstract classes).

But this does not work for our custom notation of Collection types yet.
With this fix relative and imported class names are supported also for
our custom notation of collection types and the above would be
expanded to::

 \\CollectionTypeNamespace\\CollectionType<\\ElementTypeNamespace\\ElementType>

* Fixes: `#57034 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57034>`_
* Related: `#46008 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/46008>`_
* Related: `#50909 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/50909>`_
* Commit: `4935af4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4935af46252403c530c42b1061fe5b503128379d>`_

[TASK] Fix intermittent failures in SessionTest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At time the garbageCollectionOnlyRemovesTheDefinedMaximumNumberOfSessions
in SessionTest fails with "Failed asserting that 1 matches expected 5."

Since the test is about making sure a maximum is not exceeded, this
changes the assertion from "equal" to "less than or equal".

* Commit: `e943cfd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e943cfdc266461107c6ce52b6004f74297c53b6f>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH to 2.1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The value was still "dev-master"

* Commit: `351d35a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/351d35a52df01d8fcf1a428cefbc5cd0738a1da6>`_

[BUFGIX] Throw exception if PackageStates.php is not writeable
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#53238 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53238>`_
* Commit: `8c2d221 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8c2d221b472f5999d1ff67e037deb6125209f6ae>`_

[BUGFIX] Do not serialize singleton properties on __sleep
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Serializing a Flow managed object will not serialize injected
properties as they will be reinjected anyway. This now works
consistently for all injections.

This also is a workaround for the PHP bug:
https://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=65967

As the only reason we serialize an SplObjectStorage curently is
that we serialize Logger instances.

* Commit: `bdd54d1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/bdd54d18813591977ab5556cbe5948d6421262c1>`_

[BUGFIX] PackageManager initialize() signature is incompatible
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PackageManagerInterface contains following method declaration::

 public function initialize(\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Core\\Bootstrap $bootstrap);

however in the PackageManager the signature is::

  public function initialize(\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Core\\Bootstrap $bootstrap,
    $packagesBasePath = FLOW_PATH_PACKAGES,
    $packageStatesPathAndFilename = '')

This will create a fatal error on some versions of php and when running
unit tests on hhvm (of CMS), see
http://php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.interfaces.php:

"The class implementing the interface must use the exact same method
signatures as are defined in the interface. Not doing so will result
in a fatal error."

This change updates the method signature of the PackageManager to be in
line with the interface.

* Fixes: `#56409 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/56409>`_
* Commit: `6c4fbd6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6c4fbd6d2f2da6d196ddf926c1b60c0152912e5e>`_

[TASK] Fix unit test failing due to float precision issue
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes two unit tests failing with something like::

  Expected: "12.34"
  Actual: "12.339999999999999857891452847979962825775146484375"

We just raise the value from 12.34 to 112.34 - that makes it
112.34000000... which makes the test pass.

* Commit: `d3fec1e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d3fec1e77ee7af063c8bb85dd6303cc5ae2e64db>`_

[TASK] Clarify logger configuration in Objects.yaml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration given in Objects.yaml for the system logger is not really used,
as the logger is set up from settings during boot.

This change makes it clear that a change to the settings should be done
through Settings.yaml.

* Commit: `c409ca2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c409ca22f6899a3459b401ed7ab713c6f5761f56>`_

[BUGFIX] .htaccess is overwritten by the composer install scripts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The composer update / install scripts overwrite the Web/.htaccess
file which is unwanted behavior as this leads to issues when
people add custom rewrite rules, or if for example setting the
MultiViews option is not allowed.

This change moves the .htaccess, index.php and flow scripts
to the Defaults folder so it will only be initialy placed into
the installation.

* Fixes: `#54553 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54553>`_
* Commit: `f792ef7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f792ef7b1b64ad95cacb6467d3a2573e3d11cb24>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Arrays as form objects also support property paths
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When having an array as form object and a dotted property notation
for form fields, that dotted notation wasn't followed for no
reason. Now it's possible to have a ``<f:form.textfield
property="product.tag" />`` if the underlying form object is
``array('product'=>array('tag'=>'somevalue'))``.

* Commit: `4e37140 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/4e37140bee8155b890e84fe20489ad6f45e1d130>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

