====================
2.2.0-beta3
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[FEATURE] Implement (almost) all JavaScript Math functions in MathHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds most of the functions implemented in the global
JavaScript Math objects to the EEL MathHelper.
Only some functions dealing with low-level floating point number
operations are left out. Some of the EcmaScript 6 draft functions are
also implemented, since most of them already have counterparts in the
PHP math API.
This change also updates the round() function to not throw any
exceptions but return NAN as this resembles the behavior in JavaScript.

* Commit: `cac3bd6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/cac3bd69d98c4e03a432688758a247c0bc0df838>`_

[BUGFIX] Calling a method on NULL should not throw NotAllowedException
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A call to a method of a NULL value in the ProtectedContext throws a
misleading NotAllowedException. Since the default in Eel is to return
NULL if a method is called on a NULL value, this change updates that
behavior also for the ProtectedContext.

* Commit: `698a8cb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/698a8cb31714aadbf098dd96111e70ccab86890e>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/17/

* Commit: `f08316b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f08316b04e82f72e37f1a4fa5f5425a44d1f150d>`_

[FEATURE] Convenience method to create custom FileMonitors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Exposes a static method in the FileMonitor class to create
a new FileMonitor instance during boot time in order to use
the FileMonitor for custom purposes.

Additionally add a new method to monitor a directory with a given
filename pattern and fix a bug where the removal of subsequently created
files was not tracked.

* Commit: `b2cb66f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b2cb66ff7255e60f2e453a36ba6869e433453d54>`_

[TASK] Update documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes some documentation issues and typos.

* Resolves: `#57160 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57160>`_, #57404

(cherry picked from commit dbd5bc6a94ce4af589e127da9a426221223b0ea9)

* Commit: `2028319 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/20283190e8f2dcbf1208eaa3e5a915675ea4bd4b>`_

[TASK] Clarify documentation for AOP method() and class()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add some hints regarding matching on interfaces.

* Commit: `ec1fc0a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ec1fc0accf66aa413792aa79c4a5e92f33e3971a>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[FEATURE] Configure FileMonitor for Resources/Private/Templates
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a custom FileMonitor to watch for changes in Templates.
This will for now be used to flush the Neos content cache.

Needs Id4aebb951f27b7befe1c1be81301b12679440bfc in TYPO3.Flow

* Commit: `49a5a5d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/49a5a5d292ebfe7acf5bad00c03b3190a93c874d>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

