====================
2.2.0-beta4
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Upgrade PHPUnit to 4.0.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Require PHPUnit 4.0.* instead of 3.7.*.
* Commit: `6cf26e2 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/6cf26e29c75e18fc90e8ab3701d5bbb1b05b7dfe>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Adjust unit test to PHPUnit 4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts one unit test to to work with PHPUnit 4. The delta for
assertEquals() is only applied to float values, so the integer
timestamps in that test need to be cast.

* Commit: `7c377a3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/7c377a38d2e0f11fc0cd4b594cca058574dc856e>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/18/

* Commit: `38474b5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/38474b5af3c6eefe916a2dd0ae22317dbc0c4d85>`_

[BUGFIX] Support Doctrine Collections in PersistenceQueryRewriting
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Security's PersistenceQueryRewritingAspect now supports also Doctrine
collection handling rather than only primitive arrays for ``in``, ``contains``
and ``matches`` operators.

* Fixes: `#46076 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/46076>`_
* Commit: `b415443 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b4154434384c33e835abb3ee9e0c176e915d03ee>`_

[BUGFIX] ClassLoader works with UniqueGlobalClass declaration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

composer allows a PSR-0 mapping for global classes without
namespace in https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#psr-0
The new ClassLoader did not accomodate for that.

(cherry picked from commit d902b3f749acbfc52353885b60d25a7a30a1fa44)

* Commit: `2de0f3e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2de0f3e9de41dfd10330e1b67b917ebcd0a321a1>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw exception if case of class- and filename don't match
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mismatching class- and filename case is now detected during compiletime
already and a helpful exception is thrown.

* Related: `#59031 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/59031>`_
* Commit: `e29e699 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e29e699591d57291e180ba0bb08df323097fd685>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix support for absolute URIs in WebRedirect options
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes support for authentication provider redirects to external
domains.

Background:

If a ``WebRedirect`` is configured with a relative URI like::

  entryPoint: 'WebRedirect'
  entryPointOptions:
    uri: 'some/path'

The ``Location`` header gets properly prefixed with the current
base URI.
But due to a typo this happened as well for absolute URIs.

Note: using the "uri" option for internal redirects is deprecated,
use the ``routeParts`` option instead for those.

* Fixes: `#56598 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/56598>`_
* Commit: `96c4210 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/96c42102f1f83276d5dd1da7b50e928376041234>`_

[BUGFIX] TestingToken must not rely on a session
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes the ``TestingToken`` to implement the
``SessionLessTokenInterface`` so that it doesn't rely on a session
to be started whenever it is authenticated.

This is required in order to make use of the token for CLI based
tests (e.g. from behat).
The change also removes the TestingProviderTest that were actually
outdated and only worked by accident.

* Commit: `7dea97e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7dea97ed5d0ba245d69642e15901131cc99e8a6a>`_

[BUGFIX] CommandController must reset its arguments on dispatch
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The CLI CommandController is not stateless in the sense that it
just adds argument definitions without removing previous definitions
in ``processRequest()``.
Usual this is not a problem, because every command is called only
once per request. But in tests or when using the ``flow:core:shell``
command this has weird side effects.

* Commit: `71de1a4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/71de1a4684f85b7d9be37c7ab2c6dff04628ca9d>`_

[TASK] Log configuration details of WebRedirects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Log all WebRedirect options instead of only ``uri``.

Background:
Even though it's encouraged to use the ``routeParts`` option rather
than ``uri`` for security WebRedirects, the corresponding AOP aspect
logs "Redirecting to authentication entry point with URI - undefined"
when no ``uri`` is specified.
This change fixes this by logging all redirect options.

* Commit: `9208112 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/920811282abba0e4c8565ccb454af6a237bbae69>`_

[FEATURE] Add Configuration for Doctrine Filters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds analog to eventSubscribers and eventListeners
a setting to register filters to the EntityManager. This makes
it possible to use extensions like SoftDeleteableFilter from the
gedmo/doctrine-extensions.

* Commit: `35add7f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/35add7fc4ece4d845efd3c032c5dfd151640984f>`_

[BUGFIX] SplitSources break on glob errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using SplitSource a glob call is used to fetch all
configuration files. This can return FALSE on error and on some
systems also on no result which was not correctly catched.

* Commit: `a2b427b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a2b427bc0d380fee571d4e9cfd7d58e857467efd>`_

[TASK] Fix documentation version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sets the version of this documentation to "2.2.0" to match the released
version.

* Commit: `82a385c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/82a385c0e127f5b58ff773339fbe64839765400e>`_

[TASK] Fix navigation menus in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f4666e9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f4666e9b9df1fac9a1a9c37c3693dab6f99d4a07>`_

[TASK] Adjust tests to PHPUnit 4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts one functional test to to work with PHPUnit 4. Mocking
static methods is no longer possible, so a test workaround in the
ActionController class is added.

Besides that some cleanup is done.

* Commit: `affdb42 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/affdb429d9ebff1db15fbd85c63947832ee385e9>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[FEATURE] "DefaultCase" view helper for the "Switch" view helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a view helper which allows for specifying markup being
rendered when no "case" view helpers matches within a "switch" view helper
construct.

Example::

  <f:switch expression="{fruit}">
  	<f:case value="apple">Apple</f:case>
  	<f:case value="pear">Pear</f:case>
  	<f:defaultCase>Some other fruit</f:defaultCase>
  </f:switch>

* Commit: `cb6d0b6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/cb6d0b6d126ded1639e331b705bf6dcf41621ca1>`_

[BUGFIX] Make required work on Textfield and Textarea VH
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The way required was checked any non-null value would mark a field as
required - including FALSE, which is not expected behavior.

This change fixes this by strictly comparing to TRUE, before marking as
required, thus following the documented argument type.

The TextareaViewHelper also gains support for the required attribute
with this change.

* Commit: `5c3f697 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5c3f697ceadc4a37e0ea028ffe5b24ea4ecf2ed8>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

