====================
2.2.2
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix nested + expressions in conditions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: FLOW-46

(cherry picked from commit 65c74bfd191fbb30b17d1f3ef514c46e2af6ea8a)

* Commit: `eae8860 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/eae8860be13210bfaa01cf5d71336b35df6b7476>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/21/

* Commit: `74efd3c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/74efd3c50f99bfa794ce758533adfcc8a78b3398>`_

[BUGFIX] Make file uploads work again
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a regression which was introduced by
Ib5acdb59ee2ff9593456fe35960cdc9c41d71ace. That change
created a second TypeConverter for Resource objects, but
gave a wrong priority for that one -- effectively disabling
the default type converter which handled file uploads.

Here, we merge the behavior of both TypeConverters into
a single one.

When testing this, make sure to fully clear your cache.

Related: NEOS-158
Fixes: FLOW-60

* Commit: `3a5d44e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3a5d44ec8e2725b31fee851a3407bb288d261195>`_

[TASK] Remove link to forge from DebugExceptionHandler output
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The link to create an issue from the exception screen was not used much
and since we moved away from forge it would link to the wrong tracker.

I consider this experiment a failure and thus this change removes the
link (generation code) from the DebugExceptionHandler.

* Commit: `6fc1f77 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6fc1f7749c1c7caacef08e9b95cf9843fa8b6b29>`_

[BUGFIX] Add domain model validators only once
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a domain model validator is present and a controller action accepts
this domain model as argument, the validator is added twice to the
validation tree.

It is added in ValidatorResolver::buildMethodArgumentsValidatorConjunctions()
and in ValidatorResolver::addCustomValidators() which is called from
ValidatorResolver::getBaseValidatorConjunction()

Both methods are called when building the validation tree in
ActionController::initializeActionMethodValidators()

* Resolves: `#49624 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49624>`_
* Commit: `6b38d1f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6b38d1f7a8d86886d99901c1535e502081e96285>`_

[BUGFIX] sessionManager->getActiveSessions() returns empty array
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds the tag 'session' to all started sessions.
As SessionManager->getActiveSessions() searches sessions by
'session' tag, nothing will ever be returned if the tag is
not set.

* Fixes: `#55936 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/55936>`_
* Commit: `3d492d3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3d492d3b26f327f39cad87f264a0d91d74098cf9>`_

[BUGFIX] REMOTE_AUTHORIZATION strips "Basic" string
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the .htaccess file passes the "Authorization" header
to the REMOTE_AUTHORIZATION environment variable by stripping
the "Basic" string. This means as soon as the authentication
token tries to authenticate, the only remaining thing is the
base64 encoded value of username/password without the "Basic"
indicator. This leads to no basic auth possible when running
CGI.

* Resolves: `#53010 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53010>`_

(cherry picked from commit 8bd0eca54fefa1eb014d000f368634d2a91f477d)

* Commit: `19f638c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/19f638c8bf1f1d24bb01500056f6185475f8229b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix fatal errors related to templateCache
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes more fatal errors that occur at times, similar to the fix in
I9bf0c8eafc8ab70215b35153f428839a6721469e.

* Commit: `ecd83ca <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/ecd83caf6170ec5af8711bc3192e368bdbe8bf7c>`_

[BUGFIX] Resolve duplicate layout and partial compilations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Layouts and partials are independent of the current controller and hence should
not have the controller name in their identifier to prevent duplicate
compilations and cache instances of the same content.
This change removes the controller name from identifiers of layouts and
partials, but leaves the identifier of templates untouched.

* Fixes: `#39428 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/39428>`_
* Commit: `6224bcf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/6224bcf3eb69e4f0303a80074df5964795cbe8ce>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

