====================
2.3.0-beta3
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/26/

* Commit: `9d1f83b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9d1f83bf8febf7300d221dddad1303d1083b2e12>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to "HTTP components for handling requests"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.http.schema.yaml`` according to the
"HTTP Components" feature introduced with
I1e2491dba5adc125a7b85a574c9b51c9ae2ff18f

Fixes: FLOW-35
* Related: `#52064 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52064>`_
* Commit: `61f2155 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/61f2155c4e95566d9384e99d6c8fdf1ef0c68e88>`_

[BUGFIX] PHP Notice when multiple namespace roots are set
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``Package`` class triggers a PHP Notice when a composer manifest
contains several search paths for the same prefix (see [1])::

    {
      "autoload": {
        "psr-0": {
          "Foo\\\\": ["src/", "tests/"]
        }
      }
    }

This commit changes the behaviour to using the first path as class
path when multiple paths are defined.

[1] https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#psr-0

Resolves: FLOW-94

* Commit: `a095526 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a095526d9b8ef582e8b29cf5b6654e177e7aef1f>`_

[BUGFIX] Support custom factories for constructor argument injection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It should be possible to use custom factories (``factoryObjectName``)
for constructor injection (``arguments``) the same way as they
can be used for property injection.

Resolves: FLOW-135

* Commit: `7a8553f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7a8553fe695c1b92f75b80311f37878901cca3c3>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent iteration over empty collection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This shouldn't make a difference but with the current way
properties are serialized in the TYPO3CR it can happen that
you have ArrayCollections which do contain a NULL value instead
of an array. This will break on the next serialization and this
prevents it.

* Commit: `0a869f1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0a869f137a966470ee1aab0695561d85cb079cc8>`_

[BUGFIX] Use bin2hex in ObjectArray when using PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ObjectArray type still uses serialize() to convert to the database
value, thus producing data that cannot be used as is for a BYTEA column.

With this change, the serialized string is run through bin2hex() when
writing to the database and through hex2bin on the way back, if the
system runs on PostgreSQL.

For PHP versions prior 5.4 a hex2bin() replacement is used.

Fixes: FLOW-132

* Commit: `1e764d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1e764d084aeb82a4c9c26c41521f5835179ec7c8>`_

[TASK] Remove unused flag from BaseTestCase
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

That flag has been deprecated sine PHPUnit 3.3, so it is time to say
goodbye.

* Commit: `aae3e55 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/aae3e552edb472b9ccd95c6177e3df2a1fbab2a8>`_

[TASK] Add "suggest" and "conflict" dependencies to newly created composer manifests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Newly created composer manifests only contained the "require" dependencies
of the package meta data. With this change also suggested and conflicting
dependencies are added.

Related: NEOS-785

* Commit: `12cd73c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/12cd73c1bba5e1b81868a8f47e3df3d10058db14>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Improve ViewHelper documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation of a few ViewHelpers is tweaked so it renders
correctly.

* Commit: `154d374 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/154d374b44ec46ef1b641c17fa69b9bf6071e9b3>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

