====================
2.3.0-beta2
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/25/

* Commit: `1cdd6a9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1cdd6a92ddb730650a6f8641949300cfc00bab24>`_

[FEATURE] Respect implementation of JsonSerializable interface
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The JsonView will call jsonSerialize() in transformValue()
for objects implementing the JsonSerializable interface. This is useful
if a domain model or data transfer object needs custom serialization
logic for JSON.

The implementation also works in PHP 5.3 where the JsonSerializable
interface is not yet present and will be ignored.

* Resolves: `#54092 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54092>`_
* Commit: `78efef8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/78efef805dd14517758222f5cefdb51da0d5e491>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix postPackageUpdateAndInstall() in Flow
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a package declares it has some resource to install by defining::

  "extra": {
      "typo3/flow": {
          "manage-resources" : true
      }
  }

in the composer manifest, the contents of the `Defaults` and `Essentials`
folders in `Resources/Private/Installer` is supposed to be copied to the
project root.

This was broken, the files were copied to their own source location
instead, breaking changes like https://review.typo3.org/34312

Fixes: FLOW-120

* Commit: `3443cc6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3443cc61917b29b0278da091bf1b47203ba73b85>`_

[BUGFIX] Memcached backend not cleared across Cli/Web requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is because the backend is bound to the executing script + SAPI mode
and not the installation path + Flow context. This makes it
impossible to clear entries created in the Web with the
Cli cache flush commands, and vice versa.

Additionally the Flow context is not taking into account so
the Development/Production share the same cache, which can
lead to undesired behavior.

Fixes: FLOW-116

* Commit: `301abc7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/301abc73a29a86bf375005c21d6aec03c5e3dffe>`_

[TASK] Update FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH to 2.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ae22a0e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ae22a0e3b0c015d2fac5fdd8043fc9573287bfe9>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[!!!][TASK] Remove usage of ReflectionService in ViewHelpers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``AbstractViewHelper`` now uses compile static to get all
needed information about the render method of ViewHelper implementations.

As the AbstractViewHelper doesn't use the ReflectionService
anymore it was removed. This is breaking if a ViewHelper implementation
relies on the fact that ``$this->reflectionService`` is available. A
code migration warns about the possible usage of it.

* Commit: `5a992b7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5a992b74e4450326b86846daec40176185ce0d69>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

