====================
2.3.0-beta1
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update PhpUnit to 4.3 and vfsStream to 1.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `cac7583 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/cac7583ab822daa436f7788158b8f45f57e85772>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/5/

* Commit: `b37c280 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/b37c2809fe6885067320f328b82a8dfd86860860>`_

[TASK] Upgrade PHPUnit to 4.0.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Require PHPUnit 4.0.* instead of 3.7.*.
* Commit: `855c484 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/855c48407039a5917e4e4e35c92b841b99ab8b84>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/5/

* Commit: `cb7b2e2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/cb7b2e27e872fa4a8c9ee79a69aba495112919e2>`_

[FEATURE] Introduce EelUtility
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The EelUtility provides two static helper methods to reduce
the amount of duplicated boilerplate code used to create
default context objects and check and evaluate an expression.

* Commit: `fab852d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/fab852d50bfebff879ee0897ecfdc60bbed66a8b>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix nested + expressions in conditions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: FLOW-46

* Commit: `65c74bf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/65c74bfd191fbb30b17d1f3ef514c46e2af6ea8a>`_

[TASK] Optimize OperationResolver with CompileStatic
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The list of operations can be compiled statically for a faster
production runtime performance.

* Commit: `4aa1227 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/4aa122787f4ecb8955c0d2963f0d5f49e501ef9a>`_

[TASK] Add unit test for JsonHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ece8d61 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/ece8d61f61638b91396231cb257c0f85e8aa5a34>`_

[FEATURE] Add JsonHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a new ``JsonHelper`` with ``stringify`` and ``parse`` methods
similar to the ``JSON`` object in JavaScript.

By default it will parse JSON into associative arrays.

* Commit: `67387fb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/67387fba89177fc989bba4992ee0c597e50434d9>`_

[TASK] Mark EEL helpers and Context as Proxy(false)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This should reduce generated code and is a micro-optimization for the
runtime performance, since we don't need any proxy logic for the Context
and most helpers.

* Commit: `f44e6fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/f44e6fdc2ef423c316656ab05c2f0729f5bb98ba>`_

[TASK] Add more examples and make PHPDoc ready for RST documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Add more examples to StringHelper
- Update the PHPDoc description to be formatted with RST

* Commit: `dea75c3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/dea75c372ff3d6c37d3db78bf588dd0c04661915>`_

[TASK] Minor CGL code cleanup
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2be7477 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/2be7477e83e059e86fb968a4fc2dbc1ebc01d62e>`_

[FEATURE] Support instanceof operator on attributes in Fizzle
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Example::

  [foo instanceof string]

* Commit: `f607bc5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/f607bc5cf6004591a9c63cfaaea7e3ae39f90de0>`_

[TASK] Adjust doc comment for FlowQuery filter operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3d4302a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/3d4302a18691e8c32c1c944342916b7c08d26e37>`_

[FEATURE] Support != operator in Fizzle for FlowQuery
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d140db8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/d140db8089824cb46038440e74b5bde1e0a08c54>`_

[FEATURE] Implement (almost) all JavaScript Math functions in MathHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds most of the functions implemented in the global
JavaScript Math objects to the EEL MathHelper.
Only some functions dealing with low-level floating point number
operations are left out. Some of the EcmaScript 6 draft functions are
also implemented, since most of them already have counterparts in the
PHP math API.
This change also updates the round() function to not throw any
exceptions but return NAN as this resembles the behavior in JavaScript.

* Commit: `5810504 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/581050414f7a50c1d54e992ae18b2973897337e4>`_

[BUGFIX] Calling a method on NULL should not throw NotAllowedException
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A call to a method of a NULL value in the ProtectedContext throws a
misleading NotAllowedException. Since the default in Eel is to return
NULL if a method is called on a NULL value, this change updates that
behavior also for the ProtectedContext.

* Commit: `782fc12 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/782fc1203fc557d820d709aa9084b2b209e491fe>`_

[TASK] Adjust unit test to PHPUnit 4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts one unit test to to work with PHPUnit 4. The delta for
assertEquals() is only applied to float values, so the integer
timestamps in that test need to be cast.

* Commit: `6d3e239 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/6d3e2393100007684afa277434b2f224c548044f>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/23/

* Commit: `e19ef08 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e19ef085a7dd49774fcb1e7e7a10d92cf733b2fd>`_

[TASK] Version number adjustments in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates the version number in Readme.txt and Upgrading.txt

* Commit: `6e4282f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6e4282fbfca6803668039aaf0a2a755d33a7cf6b>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust code migration identifier pattern to contain the full timestamp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously code migrations are expected to have a class name with the
pattern ``Version<YYYYMMDDhhmm>`` and the unique identifier was
determined extracting the last 12 characters of the class name (which
are expected to be the timestamp).

With this change everything after the "Version" string is considered for
the identifier, allowing the timestamp to contain seconds as well.

This also adjusts existing code migrations to use the full timestamp in
order to establish the new guideline (note: those migrations still
return the old identifier so that they won't be applied again with a
new identifier).

Fixes: FLOW-110

* Commit: `9caefea <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9caefea0d9899cd79156df96ed8502bf10673a0e>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/5/

* Commit: `9f53a6f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9f53a6f37591c972463acc3d82ab904c72c3243f>`_

[TASK] Some cleanup in functional behat test helper code
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `16fec8c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/16fec8c9cf9a375a67898f0962c9f39b8676a846>`_

[BUGFIX] Only include trait from TYPO3CR if available.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Besides fixing the trait include this change adds missing
@fixtures annotations to make the Behat tests pass.

Those annotations can be removed in the acl changes as by
then the typo3_flow_security_account table is not required
anymore for running those tests.

* Commit: `d1108f3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d1108f342c84ca648c0200aeffc003b1e915a471>`_

[TASK] Provide behat context traits for isolated security testing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Security features mostly have to be tested in a subprocess, as
we have to recreate proxies for the specified testing policy.

This change provides a trait, to run behat steps in an isolated process,
as well as a trait to test security features.

Related: FLOW-102

* Commit: `b0ea729 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b0ea729da34b5cca3996ff8589df15391d9347f7>`_

[BUGFIX] Support empty arguments in CLI when passing arguments as string
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Empty arguments resulted in a php notice. This is fixed by adding an
additional safeguard.

Related: FLOW-102

* Commit: `a53ec69 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a53ec69777c9edde7537f128d257db501863783a>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust regular expression to strip only first php tag
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow up for I388f1a7c04139d5482203887931684f597d71e54
which changed the regular expression in a way that wrongly
removed all opening php tags in the given php file.

Fixes: FLOW-90

* Commit: `b79443c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b79443cd4506fd6c59af1950267da44d6ff2898f>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow argument with spaces in CLI shell commands
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The CLI request building in Flow explodes the arguments on spaces
which leads to problems when multi word argument values are used.

This change updates the behaviour so multi word argument values
can be used when correctly quoted.

Related: FLOW-102

* Commit: `6fdf61e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6fdf61e57808203f7e597df487a308122cb91de9>`_

[BUGFIX] Move file migration operation created empty folders
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the "oldPath" didn't exist the operation still created the empty "newpath".

Related: NEOS-390

* Commit: `ec2f51e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ec2f51e703bc7cb0bdfa37a035aadba1b0c5a43d>`_

[BUGFIX] Requesting /index.phpa/ breaks Uri host parameter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the request URI contains ``index.php`` and something afterwards
before a slash, that something is included in the host being
set on the request URI that's constructed.

Problem lies in the handling of URIs containing index.php,
where that part is automatically stripped off. However it
strips it off in a way that can cause this issue, when the
``parse_url()`` is called on a broken URI.

Fixes: FLOW-92

* Commit: `e5e5e4f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e5e5e4fa681c3ac8c0c940aa90448cdf83b96d92>`_

[BUGFIX] Call to undefined method ask in Cli CommandController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When required arguments are left out in a command controller call
an undefined method exception is thrown in Cli\\CommandController.
This regression was introduced in Ia77c62b41fb598bdfb7b81c530494ba819a590d1

This change updates the call to the ask() method to use the ConsoleOutput
object.

Fixes: FLOW-93

* Commit: `03d540b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/03d540bc78f3c141208d25a632323d7fc6d5d1cc>`_

[BUGFIX] There is a "off-by-one" error in proxy classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since merging I42867963468c23a3dd11512c31ab1bff0ba3db1c the generated
proxy classes contain one line too much which results in error
messages showing the wrong line number when compared to the original
code. With this change the proxy class again resembles exactly
the original code.

* Commit: `471a6f8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/471a6f8c7e948f96d72adb7efca06d5e3c902468>`_

[TASK] Add support for file locking in (Simple)FileBackend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With concurrent access the current FileBackend and SimpleFileBackend can
be racy, this patch adds a strict file locking when writing and shared
locking when ready to avoid this problem.

* Related: `#53262 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53262>`_
* Commit: `504f642 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/504f642dc563ae352545c12035bd8048fb9e9164>`_

[TASK] Add a generic lock class
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change provides a generic lock class and
a flock based lock implementation.

* Commit: `c19f504 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c19f504f7e495582c50e3911ec964bad04b437da>`_

[FEATURE] Allow creation of Resource with given identity
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To allow importing of resources while keeping their identity (so that
they are not imported again and again) the ResourceTypeConverter now
allows the identity to be passed in via (__identity) when converting
from array to Resource.

This needs to be allowed via the CONFIGURATION_IDENTITY_CREATION_ALLOWED
property mapping configuration option.

Related: NEOS-158

* Commit: `98446f3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/98446f386e47cef4b13b06d48bba84889678aabb>`_

[FEATURE] Allow creation of persistent objects with given identity
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To allow importing of objects while keeping their identity (so that
they are not imported again and again) the PersistentObjectConverter now
allows the identity to be passed in via (__identity) when converting
from array.

This needs to be allowed via the CONFIGURATION_IDENTITY_CREATION_ALLOWED
property mapping configuration option.

Related: NEOS-158

* Commit: `8619ba38 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8619ba380eb5e7fa0e4c74c1fdd1500ea43f69d1>`_

[!!!][TASK] Extract console output functions from CommandController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change extracts the recently (and not yet released) helper methods
for console output into a new ConsoleOutput class. The motivation for this is
to allow for delegating certain functionality of a command to other classes /
services and making it possible for them to output to the console. In these
cases, the command controller can simply pass the ConsoleOutput instance
to the third party service which in turn can use it like the command controller
would do.

This change is breaking for everybody who already started using the new
helper methods in CommandController.

* Commit: `36995ab <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/36995abe7134dad0e8dbdd0d2cb396c962268c17>`_

[FEATURE] Programatically tweak command descriptions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Command controllers may now post process descriptions for their
respective commands by implementing a new interface.

If a controller implements DescriptionAwareCommandControllerInterface
the two methods processDescription() and processShortDescription()
can modify the descriptions derived from the doc comment blocks.

Resolves: FLOW-78

* Commit: `b0b200b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b0b200b78d2a9d90bcf1014d17a4760624883b4a>`_

[FEATURE] Add Locale Type Converter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a Type Converter which converts from locale
identifier strings to an actual I18n\\Locale object.

* Commit: `77fae40 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/77fae409826fb50c71f6abf605307f823b1288a1>`_

[BUGFIX] Move variable initialisation to where it is needed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `10a43ef <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/10a43effaa0d5ba8d0283ddc894e965cac3c1e7d>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix __toString() in Uri for edge case
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When constructing an Uri instance from a string like '/foo/bar' and
settings scheme and host afterwards, __toString would return
``http://host:/foo/bar`` (note the lone colon).

* Commit: `ee27480 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ee27480d86c28db9cc88e037f472da027293d6c0>`_

[BUGFIX] Support split configuration source in code migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Code migrations now also apply to split configuration files.

Fixes: FLOW-68

* Commit: `f17b6b7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f17b6b792fb780f35828b57674030cfadf084dfd>`_

[FEATURE] Allow multiple types for properties in schema validation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allows multiple types for properties in schema validation, which is
supported by the JSON Schema standard.

See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor75

Resolves: FLOW-67

* Commit: `e14cfb0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e14cfb01b56f2c2e9074f7374401eee211890404>`_

[FEATURE] Make ObjectAccess check has…() as well
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

So far ObjectAccess checks for get…() and is…() as possible getter
methods, this change adds a check for has…() as well.

* Commit: `8317b5d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8317b5d34e2cf930d4256b3c5ce0e57588fb9d15>`_

[BUGFIX] Make file uploads work again
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a regression which was introduced by
Ib5acdb59ee2ff9593456fe35960cdc9c41d71ace. That change
created a second TypeConverter for Resource objects, but
gave a wrong priority for that one -- effectively disabling
the default type converter which handled file uploads.

Here, we merge the behavior of both TypeConverters into
a single one.

When testing this, make sure to fully clear your cache.

Related: NEOS-158
Fixes: FLOW-60

* Commit: `f38b357 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f38b3570c95f6d25906d101d3634091cc3ecf420>`_

[BUGFIX] Add ``expectedExceptionMessage`` to ignoredTags
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the mentioned entry to the ignored annotation
tags settings. This is a valid PHPUnit tag and its
presence must not prevent Flow from working.

* Commit: `351b3dd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/351b3dd17c54adf4524811dc22145249509ecc8d>`_

[TASK] Improve flush method of Redis cache backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change improves the flush method by not using the KEYS command
with a pattern and iterating over the keys in PHP. It uses EVAL
to execute an atomic script on the server that will gather all keys in
the cache and deletes them.

Because it was not atomic, the flushByTag method is also changed to use
EVAL with this change.

Resolves: FLOW-54

* Commit: `8cee555 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8cee5553f114fdcbd5c35ee7ec7d4e908062d4e3>`_

[FEATURE] Transient properties can be property mapped
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change allows properties annotated as transient to be regarded
normally for the classSchema during reflection. Those properties are
marked in the classSchema as being transient and the persistence
implementations can check for that attribute instead of existence in
the classSchema only.

Therefore it is now possible to submit transient properties in web
forms.

* Resolves: `#36734 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/36734>`_
* Commit: `296220d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/296220dc76b35e06b1ab8e33fa39897bf4637c7f>`_

[BUGFIX] Properly merge request- and routing arguments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "HTTP Components" feature (#52064) introduced a regression that
makes it very difficult to create RESTful services with Flow.
The problem is that the ``matchResults`` from the routing framework
*override* the arguments of the HTTP request instead of being
*merged*.

This change moves the merging of request- and routing arguments from
the ``ActionRequest`` to the ``DispatchComponent`` reducing the
complexity of argument merging and fixing the behavior of routing
values overriding the request arguments.

Note: This is a breaking change if you relied on the incorrect
behavior but it's not marked as such because there is no released
version that contains the regression.

Fixes: FLOW-43
* Related: `#45293 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/45293>`_
* Related: `#52064 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52064>`_

* Commit: `57d734b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/57d734b07c6fc77f2ceddcc5faaba74107936e69>`_

[FEATURE] Command to flush only particular cache
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a command typo3.flow:cache:flushone with an
additional identifier option, to clear only that particular cache
with this identifier.

* Commit: `a9b4294 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a9b429472d0122f075bd5c84092a2480b68feb09>`_

[TASK] Fix doc comments for constants
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#57683 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57683>`_
* Commit: `6553496 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/655349661f56ca3cfd501ca2f8dbae8e5817175e>`_

[BUGFIX] sessionManager->getActiveSessions() returns empty array
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds the tag 'session' to all started sessions.
As SessionManager->getActiveSessions() searches sessions by
'session' tag, nothing will ever be returned if the tag is
not set.

* Fixes: `#55936 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/55936>`_
* Commit: `1593046 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/159304670b808f3a22f16b3ac1ca55810e04f148>`_

[FEATURE] Mark deprecated commands as such in help texts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a feature which detects @deprecated annotations
on command methods and marks those commands as deprecated
in the command help overview and help details for the respective
command. It also adds a warning line to the commands output
with a reference to a possible replacement command which
should be added to a @see annotation of the deprecated command.

* Commit: `324123c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/324123c0a3029cb514ed5907390a4aa67d39c58a>`_

[BUGFIX] Re-introduce quit() in CommandController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a regression which caused certain
commands to not shutdown properly and thus could
result in lost data or invalid caches.

Change I063742aca1898695f2e40f36b3e207248ac6e55c
marked the Command Controller's quit() method as
deprecated and refactored code using that method to
using exit() instead. However, when using exit() only,
Flow will not properly shutdown and therefore omit
actions like persisting modified entities or executing
any code which relies on the bootstrap shutdown
signals.

* Commit: `c16f07b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c16f07b59cf5d084b0e292b761fd5f25ee97219d>`_

[BUGFIX] REMOTE_AUTHORIZATION strips "Basic" string
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the .htaccess file passes the "Authorization" header
to the REMOTE_AUTHORIZATION environment variable by stripping
the "Basic" string. This means as soon as the authentication
token tries to authenticate, the only remaining thing is the
base64 encoded value of username/password without the "Basic"
indicator. This leads to no basic auth possible when running
CGI.

* Resolves: `#53010 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53010>`_
* Commit: `8bd0eca <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8bd0eca54fefa1eb014d000f368634d2a91f477d>`_

[TASK] Update yaml and dom-crawler versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Raise the required version limits of the Symfony components yaml and
dom-crawler.

* Commit: `aae5ca1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/aae5ca17299d905eda28a2e4e4af426467d864a5>`_

[BUGFIX] Add domain model validators only once
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a domain model validator is present and a controller action accepts
this domain model as argument, the validator is added twice to the
validation tree.

It is added in ValidatorResolver::buildMethodArgumentsValidatorConjunctions()
and in ValidatorResolver::addCustomValidators() which is called from
ValidatorResolver::getBaseValidatorConjunction()

Both methods are called when building the validation tree in
ActionController::initializeActionMethodValidators()

* Resolves: `#49624 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49624>`_
* Commit: `b1633ad <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b1633ad8af5b19c63a1fc4c815b6f079ba27485d>`_

[FEATURE] Improve type converters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ArrayConverter can now convert CSV strings (with configurable
delimiter) and JSON to array, depending on configuration. Conversion of
Resource instances to arrays is added with configurable file export
(base64 or external file).

The StringConverter accepts float, boolean, array and DateTime as source
types now. For DateTime conversion the W3C format is the default and can
be changed through configuration. Array sources can be converted to a
CSV string (with configurable delimiter)  or JSON, again depending on
configuration.

A ResourceConverter has been added. Unlike the ResourceTypeConverter it
is not for converting file uploads to Resource instances but handles
conversion of string and array sources.

Further changes:

* the BooleanConverter accepts integer and float as source types
* the IntegerConverter now can convert DateTime soures (to timestamp)
* add (more) class documentation for type converters to improve the
  converter reference in the Flow guide appendix

Related: NEOS-158

* Commit: `5e984e9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5e984e94c0a10a30b847054dcc0bd92fceef84c9>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent race conditions in Redis backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There is a theoretical possibility that inconsistent data will be stored
in the cache backend for remove() or freeze() since the code is not
fully transactional. Adding a WATCH command makes the transaction
conditionally by using optimistic locking.

* Commit: `ce12d37 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ce12d37789a439662956edecaf08b954f7044bdc>`_

[TASK] Redis cache backend improvements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change contains a drop-in replacement for the current Redis cache backend.
The new backend implements TaggableBackendInterface,
IterableBackendInterface and FreezableBackendInterface, which allows usage for
various caches (like Flow_Session_*, Flow_Reflection_*, Flow_Mvc_*,
Flow_Security_*).

* Commit: `12f4a4c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/12f4a4c2ba032b205ec610a49e78fb984da52f23>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix exception handling in CLI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the CommandExceptionHandler introduced in change
https://review.typo3.org/12019. Instead the echoExceptionCli() method in
the (Production|Debug)ExceptionHandler is used and has been updated a
bit to produce better output.

Fixes: FLOW-39

* Commit: `a052fa5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a052fa5086718a37aea1f61f3d2f32c39f8ebf14>`_

[BUGFIX] Proxy compiler should only remove opening php tag
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Without this change the proxy compiler throws away the full line
containing the opening php tag, but that is not correct as this
first line could contain important information like the namepace
declaration.

This change just removed the opening php tag and all following
whitespace but leaves anything else in the line unchanged.

Fixes: FLOW-3

* Commit: `b7726c9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b7726c94797ecf5e78bff9f1f7af0f27fac3930c>`_

[FEATURE] Allow logging of exceptions to be switched off
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The AbstractExceptionHandler logs all exceptions before passing control
to the concrete ExceptionHandler. This means that even if an exception
is handled with a custom template (e.g. for exceptions grouped as 404
status errors) the error log is filled with exceptions and the traces
fill up the Data/Logs/Exceptions directory.

Now the new option ``logException`` can be used to switch that off. Flow
sets this to FALSE for the ``notFoundExceptions`` rendering group by
default.

* Commit: `da451c3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/da451c340fa3b3baa8dec350b9c3e5208c58c033>`_

[TASK] Remove link to forge from DebugExceptionHandler output
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The link to create an issue from the exception screen was not used much
and since we moved away from forge it would link to the wrong tracker.

I consider this experiment a failure and thus this change removes the
link (generation code) from the DebugExceptionHandler.

* Commit: `af0a9d7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/af0a9d7eff7dbdb3a8e6765a5a6be32d78c59e44>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] HTTP components for handling requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the only way to hook into the request handling process
one has to create a custom ``RequestHandler`` (in order to intercept
the default application flow very early) or use AOP (e.g. to capture
Fluid AJAX-Widget requests).

With this change request handling in Flow is much more modular and
flexible as it allows packages to modify the default request chain by
providing or configuring "HTTP components".

Background:

This is not a breaking change strictly speaking as it doesn't affect
the public API. It's marked as such though because it quite likely
breaks Flow applications with custom request handling.

If you created a custom ``RequestHandler`` make sure that it still
works as expected and check if its still needed or if a HTTP
component could replace it. The same is true if you hooked into the
request handling via AOP.

* Resolves: `#52064 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52064>`_
* Commit: `e51257c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e51257c2a98bb899ed0d63dca9809040a57f5113>`_

[TASK] Raise cURL timeout
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change raises the default cURL timeout to 30 seconds.

* Commit: `61d4dae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/61d4daeeb29724aa98d4bd7abca7036e1924f824>`_

[FEATURE] Flow configuration variables settable via $_SERVER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As an alternative for environments in which setting environment
variables is not possible the ``FLOW_CONTEXT`` and
``FLOW_REWRITEURLS`` variables can be set in ``$_SERVER``. This
is possible in an apache RewriteRule for example.

Fixes: FLOW-9

* Commit: `c6c7c0b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c6c7c0b171871c643f94e6d0adaabf57f02ab0ad>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Flexible parsing of request body arguments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Parsing of body arguments (e.g. xml, json) currently takes place in
``Http\\Request`` and is hard-coded there.

This change extracts the decoding of body arguments from the request
class to a TypeConverter that is invoked by the ActionRequest only
if accessed.

The TypeConverter is referred to via a new marker interface
``MediaTypeConverterInterface``. In order to extend the media type
conversion, this interface has to be implemented by a custom
TypeConverter and set as default implementation in Objects.yaml::

  TYPO3\\Flow\\Property\\TypeConverter\\MediaTypeConverterInterface:
    className: 'Some\\Custom\\MediaTypeConverter'

This change also deprecates ``Http\\Request::createActionRequest()``
in favor of ``$actionRequest = new ActionRequest($httpRequest);``

This is a breaking change in the rare case that
``Http\\Request::getArguments()`` is expected to contain the parsed
request body already.
If you require to access those body arguments either use/create
an ActionRequest instance or parse the body arguments manually,
for example by using the PropertyMapper.

* Resolves: `#45293 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/45293>`_
* Commit: `27853b9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/27853b9fdca4582f386b0299b0282172fcaf35d7>`_

[TASK] Use @requires to check for test requirements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of using extension_loaded() and function() exists in setUp() of
test classes, use the @requires annotation provided by PHPUnit to check
for requirements.

* Commit: `90970c2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/90970c276ea597ce1dd2d790a6b3eaf7ad86fd30>`_

[TASK] Use Unicode-aware strtolower in equals()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The implementation of equals() in Doctrine\\Query used plain strtolower()
instead of a Unicode-aware function to lowercase the parameter. This
changes fixes that by using the Unicode\\Functions::strtolower() method.

* Commit: `46a88eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/46a88eb5e7c8e08e164262bade62dbecdd506212>`_

[FEATURE] Configurable Doctrine DQL Custom Functions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the possibility to add custom DQL functions
to Doctrine via configuration. Such a setting would,
for example look like the following::

	TYPO3:
	  Flow:
	    persistence:
	      doctrine:
	        dql:
	          customStringFunctions:
	            'SOMEFUNCTION': 'Acme\\Demo\\Ast\\SomeFunction'
	          customNumericFunctions:
	            'FLOOR': 'Acme\\Demo\\Ast\\Floor'
	            'CEIL': 'Acme\\Demo\\Ast\\Ceil'
	          customDatetimeFunctions:
	            'UTCDIFF': 'Acme\\Demo\\Ast\\UtcDiff'

* Commit: `026306a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/026306adc0440f51031bc29e03c26190ce5a2bde>`_

[TASK] Allow request body to be send in CurlEngine for e.g. DELETE requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change enables sending post fields in custom HTTP methods like for example DELETE.

Resolves: FLOW-14

* Commit: `551ad24 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/551ad24ce63d899b06f518781ac2749464ef51c7>`_

[BUGFIX] Corrupted HTTP request with empty cookie name causes exception
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds more tolerance to the HTTP cookie handling by simply
ignoring "Cookie: " lines in the HTTP request which have an empty name.

Resolves: FLOW-12

* Commit: `2074c0d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2074c0dfc8f52b2c6856fd20cbc59aa2100b66a4>`_

[BUGFIX] FunctionalTestcase->registerRoute() does not allow httpMethods
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The FunctionalTestcase->registerRoute() did not allow configurable httpMethods.
This change adds an httpMethods argument to this method, and adds a simple
test to verify the behavior.

* Fixes: `#58959 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58959>`_
* Commit: `a3444be <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a3444be261db6657b7f06c8f6f461e741e53c8ef>`_

[BUGFIX] Re-add styling for standard tags in CLI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the integration of ``symfony/console`` in #49016 the support for
some HTML tags was lost, namely ``<b>``, ``<i>``, ``<u>``, ``<em>``
and ``<strike>``.

This change registers these tags again in the default ConsoleOutput.

Note: In order to get the formatted output to work the ``posix`` PHP
extension is required!

* Related: `#49016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49016>`_
* Commit: `490c306 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/490c30676f96a8f72e451e57cedeccc44937c158>`_

[TASK] Implement case insensitive like() in the Query object
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change implements the missing case insensitive like() into
the Query object which was still documented as todo.

* Commit: `4a850eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4a850ebb577f816ce006313cce2a248372c86edb>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow non-numerical keys for doctrine event listeners
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The schema for the doctrine event listener configuration was of
type array, which only allows for numerical keys.
Since non-numerical keys are needed to able to unset specific
event listeners the type is changed to dictionary.

* Commit: `dee167c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/dee167c061eed4ad62b7dff17671cfe8662e2782>`_

[TASK] Cleanup CommandController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some cosmetic cleanups to the Flow ``CommandController``:

* Import PHP namespaces for better readability
* Replace inject* methods by annotations where applicable
* Add inline @var annotations for better IDE support
* Replace calls to obsolete quit() method

* Commit: `062c926 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/062c92613921ed0e6aee811a6ce7cac1855f18b8>`_

[BUGFIX] Make DI work with Doctrine using newInstanceWithoutConstructor()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change does two things:

* make sure Doctrine uses the Flow ClassReflection even after
  wakeupReflection() has been called
* override newInstanceWithoutConstructor() in ClassReflection to call
  __wakeup(), so DI works.

This fixes an issue with a workaround in Doctrine that broke DI on PHP
5.4.29, 5.5.13 as well as 5.6.x.

* Commit: `0a9dfb2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0a9dfb29c6fde9b09790b7a56f8e056e517f6329>`_

[TASK] Tiny tweak to RedisBackendTest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `25352d5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/25352d5e56cfd6f5cacc949c666cad065505256a>`_

[BUGFIX] ValidatorResolver unit test fails on PHP 5.5.13
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On PHP 5.5.13 (as well as 5.4.29 and 5.6.x) mocking stdClass fails,
this change fixes that by a plain stdClass instance instead.

* Commit: `253e380 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/253e3805ae6f3a913e32eec916f5805563578081>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix CommandController unit tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``CommandControllerTest`` to the CommandController
that has been adjusted with
I063742aca1898695f2e40f36b3e207248ac6e55c

* Related: `#49016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49016>`_
* Commit: `7937a98 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7937a988bef3898ad3717437d4d8831a740538c7>`_

[TASK] Configuration Schema for cacheAllQueryResults
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Change I15ec60786f6c7e92489a7cbf4b16625842d476fd introduced
a new setting in ``TYPO3.Flow.persistence.cacheAllQueryResults``
which was not covered in the Schema definition.
This adds the appropriate entry with being required because
the underlying code relies on this setting being set.

* Resolves: `#57583 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57583>`_
* Commit: `3851011 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/38510119d1f29b8b67560565de552c61bb54ca1c>`_

[BUGFIX] (Utility) SchemaValidator should allow additionalProperties: TRUE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This bug prevented the Views.yaml schema from being evaluated correctly.

* Commit: `d0e4840 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d0e4840958f59a831f73df4a727b5b8d4c657e8f>`_

[FEATURE] Typed array TypeConverter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implements a TypeConverter for object arrays (aka generics).
This allows for converting simple arrays to arrays of entites
for example, executing type conversion for the element type
recursively.

* Resolves: `#58696 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58696>`_
* Commit: `d068f42 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d068f42d798c2f4e710f3e6535c0510e414eb88d>`_

[!!!][TASK] Don't cut off element type in PropertyMapper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before a TypeConverter is used, the PropertyMapper calls a method
``canConvertFrom()`` on it with the current source and the expected
target type.

Previously a possible element type was cut off from the target type
before, so for a target type of "SomeType<SomeElementType>" only the
string "SomeType" was passed to ``canConvertFrom()``.
This makes it impossible to create a TypeConverter for a collection
type of a specific element type.

This is a breaking change if you created a custom TypeConverter for
a collection type (such as ``array``, ``SplObjectStorage``,
``ArrayObject`` or one of its subtypes), implemented the
``canConvertFrom()`` method and expected the second parameter to be
the truncated target type.
In this case simply add a line::

  $targetType = TypeHandling::truncateElementType($targetType);

to the beginning of the method body.

* Related: `#58696 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58696>`_
* Commit: `a752057 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a7520579fefaa677f2cb41f8cc32904a8fdb7626>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Integrate Symfony/Console into CommandController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This extends the base ``CommandController`` by some convenience
helpers from the ``symfony/console`` package:

* easy output coloring through "<error>Warning!</error>"
* TableHelper to render values to a grid
* ProgressHelper to render and advance and progress bars
* DialogHelper with numerous types of questions like: select,
  ask, confirm, askHidden, etc

Additionally this change improves the
``mapRequestArgumentsToControllerArguments()`` method to ask for
missing required arguments instead of quitting with an exception.

You can make use of the new features by calling the introduced
proxy methods from within your CommandController:

* outputTable()
* select()
* ask()
* askConfirmation()
* askHiddenResponse()
* askAndValidate()
* askHiddenResponseAndValidate()
* progressStart()
* progressSet()
* progressAdvance()
* progressFinish()

This change does not alter the public API so it is not breaking
in the strict sense. But it introduces a new behavior:
Previously all outputs where collected in the ``Cli\\Response``
and only rendered to the console at the end of a CLI request.
Now all methods producing output (inluding ``output()`` and
``outputLine()``) render the result directly to the console.

If you use ``$this->response`` directly or let the command method
return a string, the rendering is still deferred until the end of
the CLI request.

* Resolves: `#49016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49016>`_
* Commit: `57a18f8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/57a18f828b3c0c73c37523ed576e1f6ac9d77396>`_

[TASK] Improve documentation for Settings Injection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a few more comments and more text to the Dependency Injection
chapter of the Definitive Guide.

* Commit: `f96a125 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f96a1252d4b2805882e02b1400eadfedea890543>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `dde28bd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/dde28bd38472645d14c4cfc4afc324b210eab891>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Flow 2.2.0-beta4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `49f6f3a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/49f6f3a56cf7ce11cb2af4697df3bba0ffa0c3d4>`_

[BUGFIX] Support Doctrine Collections in PersistenceQueryRewriting
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Security's PersistenceQueryRewritingAspect now supports also Doctrine
collection handling rather than only primitive arrays for ``in``, ``contains``
and ``matches`` operators.

* Fixes: `#46076 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/46076>`_
* Commit: `9283c44 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9283c4448b15dfd544645f1386758d084ed0f44b>`_

[BUGFIX] ClassLoader works with UniqueGlobalClass declaration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

composer allows a PSR-0 mapping for global classes without
namespace in https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#psr-0
The new ClassLoader did not accomodate for that.

* Commit: `d902b3f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d902b3f749acbfc52353885b60d25a7a30a1fa44>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw exception if case of class- and filename don't match
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mismatching class- and filename case is now detected during compiletime
already and a helpful exception is thrown.

* Related: `#59031 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/59031>`_
* Commit: `b2653fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b2653fda712684568cbc5c3857a96a0b792627a5>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix header handling for CSRF tokens
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes a typo in the expected CSRF token header name.

* Fixes: `#55703 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/55703>`_
* Commit: `e8b1725 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e8b17253afef74705014f096332e6392d1333b37>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix support for absolute URIs in WebRedirect options
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes support for authentication provider redirects to external
domains.

Background:

If a ``WebRedirect`` is configured with a relative URI like::

  entryPoint: 'WebRedirect'
  entryPointOptions:
    uri: 'some/path'

The ``Location`` header gets properly prefixed with the current
base URI.
But due to a typo this happened as well for absolute URIs.

Note: using the "uri" option for internal redirects is deprecated,
use the ``routeParts`` option instead for those.

* Fixes: `#56598 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/56598>`_
* Commit: `002aea5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/002aea5b7b7c5de25f25e79359e686de5a64f8e2>`_

[BUGFIX] ClassLoader creates correct fallback path map
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ClassLoader would build a simple fallback path map but this
would then fail in loadClass() because the structure is not
matching that of other path maps. The change fixes that.

* Commit: `3c8707e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3c8707ec2406a824b976f602f92408f1dd341fcb>`_

[TASK] Add behat tests for method policies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a Behat ``FeatureContext`` that allows for testing
arbitrary policies and adds a simple feature for "method"
resources.

Resolves: NEOS-62

* Commit: `4996c5e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4996c5e12ba371fd52d71a8b9cf871613e1308b8>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix support for local PSR-4 packages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Basic support for PSR-4 package has been introduced with a previous
change (I9b2dae7761ef48389d9915c1269df2fdf771af8c).
But that only worked for packages installed via composer, not for
"local" packages.

This change fixes this by exposing the package's autoload type and
tweaking the Flow ClassLoader accordingly.

* Commit: `c93c801 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c93c801f457ac1b76e1fa78eadb2ec916fe67fcb>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix basic support for packages with multiple PSR-0/4 mappings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some (3rd party) package define multiple autoload mappings for
different PHP namespaces in their composer manifest, for example::

  "autoload": {
     "psr-0": {
        "SomeNamespace": "lib/",
        "SomeNamespace\\\\Test": "test/lib/"
     }
  }

Flow does not yet support multiple autoload mappings but it always
just ignored everything but the first mapping.
With I20777f78f63f512a104c4e144aa29cbedafe0f23 this is no longer the
case and an exception is thrown for packages with more than one
mapping per autoloader type.

This change reintroduces the previous behavior and fixes some minor
bugs along the way.

Background:
Because ``Package::getComposerManifest()`` returns a ``stdClass`` the
code ``count($namespaces) === 1`` always evaluated TRUE.
By casting the manifest to an array (for better HVVM support) this is
no longer the case and the exception is thrown.

In the long run we should replace the stdClass by an associative array
or DTO and introduce real support for multiple autoload mappings.

This change also fixes some minor issues and adds some unit tests.

* Related: `#57992 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57992>`_
* Commit: `85dea6c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/85dea6c8e1ef23d2cdc6e4ecbc4f1b35d4bb55b1>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e6a1e9e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e6a1e9ed7ce8b8714a2ad906ee442ead69a29790>`_

[TASK] Allow for custom policies to be registered in testing context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds some custom handling to the ``ConfigurationManager`` that
allows to initialize Flow with a different ``Policy.yaml``.
This can be used to simulate a custom policy configuration from
functional- and behavior-tests.

Details:
If in ``Testing`` context, the ConfigurationManager looks in the
temporary path of the current sub-context for a ``Policy.yaml`` file
and loads this if present.

* Commit: `746849f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/746849fb09650396db89865d5f8c6947078d6313>`_

[BUGFIX] CommandController must reset its arguments on dispatch
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The CLI CommandController is not stateless in the sense that it
just adds argument definitions without removing previous definitions
in ``processRequest()``.
Usual this is not a problem, because every command is called only
once per request. But in tests or when using the ``flow:core:shell``
command this has weird side effects.

* Commit: `d236969 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d23696938a9e6d8b5a14fbcb59b70df9d5a89c65>`_

[BUGFIX] TestingToken must not rely on a session
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes the ``TestingToken`` to implement the
``SessionLessTokenInterface`` so that it doesn't rely on a session
to be started whenever it is authenticated.

This is required in order to make use of the token for CLI based
tests (e.g. from behat).
The change also removes the TestingProviderTest that were actually
outdated and only worked by accident.

* Commit: `c99a1be <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c99a1be5942e0db073114ed210d02ce4c7ecea9c>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `cdc55dd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/cdc55dd032cb9afa071ddfdfcc95f4592e689716>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b21a56a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b21a56a5611e27621b59c2308ea32c9da1ab7c66>`_

[TASK] Make Flow Package/Package HHVM compatible
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HHVM doesn't support calling array functions like key()
on objects, we need to cast object to array first.

* Resolves: `#57992 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57992>`_
* Commit: `ae4b77c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ae4b77ca570b7c90bc19be607435c715325ad1a3>`_

[TASK] Decouple responsibilites in default errorAction()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The default errorAction() implementation in ActionController does quite
a few things, e.g. rendering an error message and forwarding back to the
original request. When implementing an own error action, this might be
unhandy, because the default error message is not so useful, while the
whole request back-forwarding stuff works quite neat. This commit
therefore moves the different parts into their own methods, which are
called by errorAction(). Each of these calls can then be used or
omitted in custom implementations of errorAction().

* Resolves: `#54618 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54618>`_
* Commit: `2c5e09a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2c5e09a3a4d72816770bfedc14ae8e86d31df4d7>`_

[BUGFIX] SplitSources break on glob errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using SplitSource a glob call is used to fetch all
configuration files. This can return FALSE on error and on some
systems also on no result which was not correctly catched.

* Commit: `8075918 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/807591898763c20c3b04bdfcbb3d3d06a017a755>`_

[TASK] Log configuration details of WebRedirects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Log all WebRedirect options instead of only ``uri``.

Background:
Even though it's encouraged to use the ``routeParts`` option rather
than ``uri`` for security WebRedirects, the corresponding AOP aspect
logs "Redirecting to authentication entry point with URI - undefined"
when no ``uri`` is specified.
This change fixes this by logging all redirect options.

* Commit: `3e8d964 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3e8d964ac81e0b1f7f1cc3bef79db07a7434985b>`_

[TASK] Fix navigation menus in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d14b6e2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d14b6e2131e22225910fdaa7cab6be5845a54092>`_

[TASK] Adjust tests to PHPUnit 4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts one functional test to to work with PHPUnit 4. Mocking
static methods is no longer possible, so a test workaround in the
ActionController class is added.

Besides that some cleanup is done.

* Commit: `281a6e3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/281a6e310a1e6d8ca9d7c62e0823e9a63be5ab70>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Flow 2.2.0-beta2
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/15/

* Commit: `ca4ab33 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ca4ab33b31a705d0c6173e15ced0249222ef05ca>`_

[TASK] Update documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes some documentation issues and typos.

* Resolves: `#57160 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57160>`_, #57404
* Commit: `dbd5bc6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/dbd5bc6a94ce4af589e127da9a426221223b0ea9>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent invocation of protected controller methods
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently any method with an "Action" suffix is callable via the
default request handling if a corresponding route exists.

For the fallback routes provided by Flow this is the case for the
``initialize*Action()`` methods that are called before the actual
action invocation.

This change adds a check for the visibility of an action method
and only allows invocation of public methods.

* Fixes: `#57410 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57410>`_
* Commit: `90132ee <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/90132ee42aa87c6d97c2bcbb5385bdc5b2fe9ddf>`_

[FEATURE] Convenience method to create custom FileMonitors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Exposes a static method in the FileMonitor class to create
a new FileMonitor instance during boot time in order to use
the FileMonitor for custom purposes.

Additionally add a new method to monitor a directory with a given
filename pattern and fix a bug where the removal of subsequently created
files was not tracked.

* Commit: `b543759 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b5437595e818f187f4e4ec9b7a874b02e521adc7>`_

[BUGFIX] SlaveRequestHandler must not ignore QUIT command
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``SlaveRequestHandler`` listens for a "QUIT\\n" command but
it trims the input first, removing the newline character.

* Commit: `4bede04 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4bede04ef40e5572797c8e9251f9eb416ebaede8>`_

[FEATURE] Split configuration sources include non-split default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change changes the behavior of split configuration sources to
include the default non-prefixed source as a fallback for increased
flexibility, allowing some packages to have split sources and others
to have a single source.

Also a check in the has method is made more strict.

* Related: `#37854 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37854>`_
* Commit: `fb2fc01 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fb2fc011092f3c0c5bb69a2942a1cfe9f192e60e>`_

[FEATURE] Persist whitelisted objects even for safe requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change provides the possibility to register single objects which
should be allowed to be persisted even if the current request is a
"safe" request.

See documentation for further explanation and an example.

* Commit: `ab75069 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ab75069eaa4bf2939749546d95c173619779fae2>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `bf20255 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/bf202557458b2c7f478bbc460889d6b0868681c3>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4841a9e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4841a9e2f8996eafd1dc815531e0b492f411b4f4>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix temporary path for AvailableProxyClasses.php
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the temporary path used for "AvailableProxyClasses.php" for
situations when a application sub context was used.

Provided that the context is "Development/MyMachine", without this patch
Flow would create a file
"Data/Temporary/Development/MyMachine/AvailableProxyClasses.php" while
all other temporary files would reside in
"Data/Temporary/Development/SubContextMyMachine/".

With this patch, the path will be
"Data/Temporary/Development/SubContextMyMachine/AvailableProxyClasses.php"

* Commit: `9c79139 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9c791399d7481d8b14e0180922277eaa370bdf29>`_

[FEATURE] Add Configuration for Doctrine Filters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds analog to eventSubscribers and eventListeners
a setting to register filters to the EntityManager. This makes
it possible to use extensions like SoftDeleteableFilter from the
gedmo/doctrine-extensions.

* Commit: `00d3a76 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/00d3a76639121c29c018bd5c547df7a7685cbe3e>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix resolving of imported collection types
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change extends the ReflectionService so that it is able to
expand our custom notation for collection types::

 CollectionType<ElementType>

Background:

In the Coding Guidelines we encourage developers to import namespaces
in order to increase readability.

With #46008 the ReflectionService is able to resolve relative and
imported namespace (with #50909 this also works for abstract classes).

But this does not work for our custom notation of Collection types yet.
With this fix relative and imported class names are supported also for
our custom notation of collection types and the above would be
expanded to::

 \\CollectionTypeNamespace\\CollectionType<\\ElementTypeNamespace\\ElementType>

* Fixes: `#57034 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57034>`_
* Related: `#46008 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/46008>`_
* Related: `#50909 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/50909>`_
* Commit: `ca5dd2c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ca5dd2ca9299ae995525a30a35c030c372f06f39>`_

[FEATURE] Custom cache directory for file based cache backends
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a new backend option "cacheDirectory" which allows for
explicitly specifying a path to the directory where entries of a
specific cache are stored. This option overrides the automatically
chosen path within Flow's temporary directory.

* Commit: `34a3e5d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/34a3e5d7600a9d3b0ed398143a159550708b9896>`_

Revert "[TASK] Resources are published with relative symlinks"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit 6d206c1d35324f26e8780fdad80fed466bc9f4e1
(also known as I2e84cd8f9abd41578a87791813d03e764528feb9)

In a real-world Surf setup, this patch will cause invalid relative
paths in the generated symbolic links.

For example:

The current release is in
/var/www/acme.com/releases/current

which would have a realpath() of
/var/www/acme.com/releases/201403060101

A published resource symlink would incorrectly point to
../../../releases/20140306210347/Data/Persistent/Resources/abcdef1234

The correct path would be
../../../Data/Persistent/Resources/abcdef1234

Since there are more variations to consider (virtual host root path
contains a symlink to releases/current/Web/_Resources or not)
this can't be solved last minute and needs thorough testing.

* Commit: `6feb49b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6feb49bae9f1292d75e6615af69b82851af155ec>`_

[TASK] Fix intermittent failures in SessionTest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At time the garbageCollectionOnlyRemovesTheDefinedMaximumNumberOfSessions
in SessionTest fails with "Failed asserting that 1 matches expected 5."

Since the test is about making sure a maximum is not exceeded, this
changes the assertion from "equal" to "less than or equal".

* Commit: `53f3eab <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/53f3eabd6afe0982b59c8c32746d88a60a204a9e>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Flow 2.2.0-beta1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1ea904f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1ea904fc86e8a558478fcb0665781972b8ca961b>`_

[BUGFIX] Make RequestTest branch independent
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are two tests testing headers rendered by Http\\Request, those
include the FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH - but did not use the constant.

* Commit: `7f06ccc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7f06ccc399cddaba60ee22661636607e157c205e>`_

[TASK] Remove 2.2 content from Upgrading.txt
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `16cf528 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/16cf528f3966c7d6d24fc5a590d406aa3bb47d71>`_

[TASK] Clarify documentation for AOP method() and class()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add some hints regarding matching on interfaces.

* Commit: `34d393d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/34d393d1c6322af9c44c1f3ac7ac22147e33368d>`_

[TASK] Change indentation in Settings.yaml.example
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change updates the indentation in Settings.yaml.example
to make it more clear how to uncomment the phpBinaryPathAndFilename
lines.

* Resolves: `#54570 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54570>`_
* Commit: `c687ee5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c687ee529a1ea0df0f6d3a5a3918855b82525985>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Adjust code migration identifier pattern to contain the full timestamp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously code migrations are expected to have a class name with the
pattern ``Version<YYYYMMDDhhmm>`` and the unique identifier was
determined extracting the last 12 characters of the class name (which
are expected to be the timestamp).

This change adjusts existing code migrations to use the full timestamp in
order to establish the new guideline (note: those migrations still
return the old identifier so that they won't be applied again with a
new identifier).

Related: FLOW-110

* Commit: `fda68ff <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/fda68ffedd6e5dce1123db77821d9241d7140448>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/5/

* Commit: `3b73dbf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/3b73dbfa19ab3d2156f9d0f1549ae33c12a9b596>`_

[BUGFIX] Template cache not flushed for partials and layouts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When modifying files in the Partials and Layout folders, the
template cache isn't flushed automatically in development
context like it is when modifying files in the Templates folder.

Fixes: FLOW-70

* Commit: `5aed623 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5aed6237afd5f60f2989c6bd905ed937ebcd3366>`_

[BUGFIX] Make Format.Crop VH multibyte safe
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes use of Flow's unicode utility functions
to allow multibyte-safe operations with the
format.crop ViewHelper.

Fixes: FLOW-48

* Commit: `ee58b21 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/ee58b21136aed560bc52ca8014252e455608ea9f>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix failing UnitTest after refactoring WidgetComponent
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: I320307b2f852c4b808430374c35d37fbcd449fe6

* Commit: `20b1f87 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/20b1f87c2995f34632a01ca9e89b961980ea0ea1>`_

[BUGFIX] AjaxWidgetComponent should merge request arguments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: FLOW-43
Related: 57d734b07c6fc77f2ceddcc5faaba74107936e69

* Commit: `4d3224e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/4d3224e00d7d5adbb784f7f70665873b2f004d24>`_

[TASK] Adjust to Symfony dom-crawler change
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Attributes that do not exist now return NULL instead of an empty string.

Relases: master

* Commit: `ccce432 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/ccce4326e7ba00f764a0aa4c60b2b7317e9f6779>`_

[TASK] Bring format viewhelpers in line with each other
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes HtmlentitiesViewHelper scope prototype and
makes most format ViewHelpers compilable by implementing
renderStatic().

This has a positive impact on memory consumption (and possibly
performance) because Fluid won't have to instanciate a view helper
for each usage.

* Resolves: `#47674 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/47674>`_
* Commit: `2b184e1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/2b184e1a5045c0b5066c0fa98b5dc4e58f5ef983>`_

[BUGFIX] Resolve duplicate layout and partial compilations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Layouts and partials are independent of the current controller and hence should
not have the controller name in their identifier to prevent duplicate
compilations and cache instances of the same content.
This change removes the controller name from identifiers of layouts and
partials, but leaves the identifier of templates untouched.

* Fixes: `#39428 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/39428>`_
* Commit: `b474d24 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/b474d24527f39e0c90f661e3457f08a89d7d988a>`_

[FEATURE] Allow custom CLDR formatting for localized date
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This feature adds the ``cldrFormat`` argument to the date format
ViewHelper. If given it will take precedence over the
``localeFormatType`` and ``localeFormatLength`` arguments.
It accepts a date formatting string according to CLDR rules, that
are found here: http://cldr.unicode.org/translation/date-time

Without this feature it is not possible to get custom localized
date strings.

Resolves: FLOW-31

* Commit: `6859bd7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/6859bd7c52ea08a51b648627b54765a43c94d3d1>`_

[TASK] Use less mock objects in AbstractWidget* tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change contains cosmetical improvements and lets the
AbstractWidgetControllerTest and AbstractWidgetViewHelperTest
use less mock objects.

It also adds array type hints to two methods in WidgetContext.

* Commit: `e8f8faf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/e8f8faf2b07cf7ad02801a7cba6a2285ccca12b4>`_

[TASK] Adjust to "HTTP components for handling requests"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change replaces the ``AjaxWidgetRoutingAspect`` by a custom
HTTP component that intercepts AJAX widget requests.

Background:

Fluids custom AJAX widget handling using AOP does not work together
with the HTTP components change in Flow (#52064).
Instead of adjusting the AOP aspect this change makes use of the new
feature by adding the ``AjaxWidgetComponent``.

Depends: Iac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40
* Related: `#52064 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52064>`_
* Commit: `594a8dd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/594a8dd36a5ffae50e354769c253b03a67e02fb5>`_

[TASK] Adjust to "Flexible parsing of request body arguments"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts ``StandaloneView``, the ``AjaxWidgetRoutingAspect``
and tests to recent changes in Flow that affect the creation of
ActionRequests.

Depends: I1d192231810757f38aecfc3f7dc520b118ee3feb
* Related: `#45293 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/45293>`_
* Commit: `7fd9072 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/7fd9072f9e04ecf54db56b8fb337ce919d316c4d>`_

[FEATURE] Sort options by translated label
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When option label translation is used together with sorting by label,
this will now translate first and sort afterwards.

* Resolves: `#57998 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57998>`_
* Commit: `87738bc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/87738bc09473452db49d144aa40d48a5f5e6a618>`_

[BUGFIX] Relax FormViewHelper unit test
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the previous change (I944ad1389092d97000acc89d591a0d05b887232d)
the Fluid unit tests fail in some circumstances due to a bug in the
``parse_url()`` PHP function (https://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=52923).

This change works around this issue by relaxing the respective test.

Note: This only addresses the master branch. In the other release
branches the fix will be included into the original change.

Related: FLOW-13

* Commit: `031f742 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/031f74283b709857d42fb015e065a67e42072b1e>`_

[TASK] Cosmetic cleanup in ViewHelper classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change just applies some non-functional changes to the
ViewHelper classes according to the Flow CGL:

* Import PHP namespaces where applicable
* Fix/extend doc comment examples
* Remove redundant doc comments
* Fix annotations

* Commit: `9485143 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/94851432955b6150aacf11ab1e6052c2ecb88842>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow ViewHelperVariableContainer to hold NULL values
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``ViewHelperVariableContainer::exists()`` checks whether a specified
key is set via ``isset()`` which leads to the behavior NULL can't be
retrieved from the container leading to unexpected exceptions.

Example::

  <f:switch expression="{expression}" />

Throws an exception if ``{expression}`` evaluates to NULL.

Make sure to use ``ViewHelperVariableContainer::remove()`` to delete
a value from the container.

Fixes: FLOW-16

* Commit: `8447c1c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/8447c1ce416682f530037f48608a0fd990429754>`_

[BUGFIX] Use htmlspecialchars to escape hidden query parameters in form
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Query parameters from the action URI of a form are sent as hidden values
for the GET method. UTF-8 values were not handled correctly in PHP
versions below 5.4 because the htmlentities function was used to
escape attributes.

This change updates the function to htmlspecialchars that is used
everywhere else to escape output for HTML and doesn't show the described
problem.

Fixes: FLOW-13

* Commit: `8f41edf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/8f41edf728e092822d31d1f7566cef954f04788f>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Enforce escaping on string-casted objects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change assures that the escape interceptor is active for objects
that are casted to strings implicitly.

Background:
For HTML requests Fluid internally applies the
``HtmlspecialcharsViewHelper`` on variables before rendering them.
An ``is_string()`` check in the escaping ViewHelpers effectively
disabled this behavior for objects that are converted to strings
implicitly via a ``__toString()`` method.

This is a breaking change if you relied on the previous behavior that
escaping is disabled for objects. In this case you can apply the
format.raw ViewHelper to achieve the old behavior::

  {object -> f:format.raw()}

But be aware that this might pose a security issue if
``$object->__toString()`` returns an unsecure string.

* Fixes: `#60069 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/60069>`_
* Commit: `315f375 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/315f375362dd2f7964af756205e5cb08fd1f9763>`_

[BUGFIX] Support for ViewHelper usage within layout tags
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, when using ViewHelpers in the ``name`` argument of the
``<f:layout />`` tag, the TemplateCompiler threw an exception
``Notice: Undefined variable: self...`` when rendering the *compiled*
template.

This change fixes this by adding the respective initialization code
before the closure that makes use of ``$self``.

* Fixes: `#45735 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/45735>`_
* Commit: `4d16727 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/4d1672792d523a457b48bd009ab01f0ce7702b29>`_

[TASK] Avoid warnings in two unit tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `573f080 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/573f0807d1bac4bf56351b4b5f1f515880e147a8>`_

[BUGFIX] Paginate Widget: Correctly highlight current page
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With #28283 the current page is correctly highlighted most of the
time. But if a non-existing page is requested (for example by
manually setting the currentPage-argument to a number higher than
the number of total pages) the last page should be highlighted, but
is not.

That is fixed with this change by making sure that ``numberOfPages``
is always an integer.

* Related: `#28283 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/28283>`_
* Commit: `dee12aa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/dee12aa6d2fb5083b251627890414a82b122c6a4>`_

[BUGFIX] Make required work on Textfield and Textarea VH
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The way required was checked any non-null value would mark a field as
required - including FALSE, which is not expected behavior.

This change fixes this by strictly comparing to TRUE, before marking as
required, thus following the documented argument type.

The TextareaViewHelper also gains support for the required attribute
with this change.

* Commit: `1e3536d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/1e3536d1f67685e0bdc40d0f08b1a88e445522f4>`_

[FEATURE] "DefaultCase" view helper for the "Switch" view helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a view helper which allows for specifying markup being
rendered when no "case" view helpers matches within a "switch" view helper
construct.

Example::

  <f:switch expression="{fruit}">
  	<f:case value="apple">Apple</f:case>
  	<f:case value="pear">Pear</f:case>
  	<f:defaultCase>Some other fruit</f:defaultCase>
  </f:switch>

* Commit: `9efd66f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/9efd66f48bd236b586efc679a926501bbe9762ae>`_

[FEATURE] Configure FileMonitor for Resources/Private/Templates
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a custom FileMonitor to watch for changes in Templates.
This will for now be used to flush the Neos content cache.

Needs Id4aebb951f27b7befe1c1be81301b12679440bfc in TYPO3.Flow

* Commit: `160e004 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/160e004a56bacfa638c6c00f0d33fcfe4fc1512f>`_

[BUGFIX] Arrays as form objects also support property paths
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When having an array as form object and a dotted property notation
for form fields, that dotted notation wasn't followed for no
reason. Now it's possible to have a ``<f:form.textfield
property="product.tag" />`` if the underlying form object is
``array('product'=>array('tag'=>'somevalue'))``.

* Commit: `ec8825c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/ec8825cac5588cdef1a58e101c81ee8288f9288c>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix fatal errors related to templateCache
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes more fatal errors that occur at times, similar to the fix in
I9bf0c8eafc8ab70215b35153f428839a6721469e.

* Commit: `1567d18 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/1567d18b784cbde2abb5e1784230b76dab64baa1>`_

[TASK] Fix various CGL violations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `77f3f9d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/77f3f9d2c2f09b310657f45741594d60ac66d2c5>`_

[TASK] Remove unused use statements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `835fa41 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/835fa414890105a468b387fb3134e11e94570b5f>`_

[FEATURE] Support for redirects within widgets
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Redirects and forwards did not work from within widget controllers
because there was no internal dispatch-loop.

This change implements support for redirects and forwards.
Besides this adds a controller check that throws an
exception when trying to redirect to a different controller
than the one associated with the widget ViewHelper.

* Resolves: `#31765 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/31765>`_
* Commit: `78aa1b6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/78aa1b635fb83f454ccf74f5dbc07c4aad0d3fc7>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/5/

* Commit: `b5308aa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/b5308aacc2c11aed19a591c869027346b742d174>`_

[BUGFIX] Class names not checked against reserved words
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Generating a Model class did not check against the reserved words
that exist in PHP, which led to Classes like "List" which cannot
exist according to the PHP specification.

This only applies to Model classes, as all other generated classes
will have a suffix which does not trigger this issue. For example:
- ListCommandController
- ListController
- ListRepository

* Resolves: `#48763 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48763>`_
* Commit: `fbee66f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/fbee66f7763999094ccfbe1828ad121f14623876>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/5/

* Commit: `4620fe1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git/commit/4620fe1d0bc93e09443f4af3aece25899bdc1239>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `9cd749d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git/commit/9cd749deaa0bc6e2bc18a210bb269dd633522327>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4153ed1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Party.git/commit/4153ed187f496b59c74079dbaa49a9e5a75d3010>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/5/

* Commit: `8c0e45f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/8c0e45fd271c1c5af55c081a67b8b83543dd8291>`_

