====================
2.3.2
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Children operation does not work with collections
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Children operation applied to entities and giving the name of a
collection property don't retrieve the collection

* Fixes: `#52450 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52450>`_
* Commit: `b5a13cb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/b5a13cbe76c0b4a21039ac50d433c68d6d7826a8>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/37/

* Commit: `df212cd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/df212cd0416818b14d256fa9c3f0b6c8f6014940>`_

[BUGFIX] Start session when fetching a CSRF token
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a ``@Flow\\Session(autoStart=true)`` annotation to the
method ``Security\\Context::getCsrfProtectionToken()``.

Background:

Currently ``CSRF`` tokens are bound to a session. Thus fetching a token
without starting a session makes no sense because the token will be
invalid on the next request.

In the long run we might be able to create "stateless" CSRF tokens that
don't require a session.

Related: FLOW-130

Depends: I896f6a722445deede1f0a656ea73db04f0d2e978

* Commit: `4c18080 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4c180800e258389752e03dea9965f8c038ae95b1>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix hostname option name for Redis backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Redis backend option for specifying a hostname is not `host`
but `hostname`.

* Commit: `f506bcf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f506bcff1692e0b0468120766ad9056de548c609>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't append subrequest arguments to toplevel request
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sub-requests the ``Uribuilder`` would append the sub-request
arguments again without namespace prefix if ``addQueryString`` was set.
This can lead to invalid URLs and possible side-effects.
An example of this would be that having this URL::

  some/action?namespace[argument]=foo

And building a URL in the subrequest with ``addQueryString`` enabled and
arguments set to ``array('argument' => 'bar')``. Previously the
resulting URL was::

  some/action?namespace[argument]=bar&argument=foo

With this change it is::

  some/action?namespace[argument]=bar

Fixes: NEOS-1027

* Commit: `5843e0a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5843e0ae65e88f75ab0e493cb3d0d1bfa5b3407e>`_

[BUGFIX] Pointed the issue tracker URL to the new JIRA instance
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `510c202 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/510c2026c86cec81f10a102589073775c569404c>`_

[BUGFIX] Schema validation: Accept interfaces for format "class-name"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts the ``SchemaValidator`` to accept strings referring
interfaces even if format "class-name" is required.

Background:

Currently if a string is expected to have the format "class-name", like::

 { type: string, format: class-name }

in a schema validation, only actual class names are accepted. To match
interfaces the "interface-name" format can be used.

In Flow we often use interface names in Objects.yaml in order to keep
things decoupled and flexible.
Because it's not possible to specify multiple supported formats, this
relaxes this restriction.

* Commit: `fab57b5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fab57b5a180640b50f577f54312a6a1bb2dae52d>`_

[TASK] Add missing changelogs (for 2.1.2 and 2.2.x)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `98d2fda <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/98d2fdafc2385adac60f5e6cb519e066c16ce4f6>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix error and standard view templates
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes several minor issues in regards of rendering of the default
``Error`` and `StandardView`` templates:

* Inline "StandardView_FloatingWindow.png" background image (it wasn't loaded
  otherwise when not in web root because of missing base tag)
* Remove references to "StandardView_Package.png" that doesn't exist
* Commit: `ed711d8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ed711d8c03c493b298f7f06a7a642f2e603c04e0>`_

[BUGFIX] Enable Functional Tests for PSR-4 packages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Packages with PSR-4 autoloading will not be able to work with
functional tests because two problems arise. First the
package namespace is prepended twice and second the path
contains an unnecessary backslash.

To avoid wrong amounts of backslashes we now use the path merging
utility to merge namespace parts instead of doing simple string
concatenation. Additionally a check is added for packages with
PSR-4 autoloading enabled.

Releaes: master, 2.3

* Commit: `0c2d4e2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0c2d4e2cf3dc0f8eedf48130930d2adb1118fe14>`_

[BUGFIX] Rename redirectToReferringRequest() to forwardToReferringRequest() in ActionController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``ActionRequest::redirectToReferringRequest()`` actually triggers a
forward not a redirect.
This change deprecates the ``redirectToReferringRequest()`` method in
favor of a new method ``redirectToReferringRequest()`` which works
exactly like the previous method.

The deprecated method might be re-implemented to issue a "real" HTTP
redirect at some point, so you should not use it for forwards.

Fixes: FLOW-164

* Commit: `865ddc2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/865ddc265da5985af16df9f2b20e9f22d2fd8776>`_

[BUGFIX] Support numeric identifiers in dynamic route parts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the dynamic route part handler provided by Flow (namely
``DynamicRoutePart`` and ``IdentityRoutePart``) only support objects
with string identifiers.

With this change also numeric identifiers are supported, for example
for entities with a numeric auto_increment identifier.

* Fixes: `#48887 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48887>`_
* Fixes: `#58517 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58517>`_

* Commit: `f5bb055 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f5bb0553bd141dcd12e7900f602df5bc3b3c5c2a>`_

[BUGFIX] Support persisting cloned related entities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cloning entities which are fetched as Doctrine proxy leads to an fatal
error in PersistenceManager. This patch fixes that behaviour and provides
a functional test for the use case.

* Commit: `6360202 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6360202f16ec2525df3789121086a01de09a28c2>`_

[TASK] Fix unit tests failing on PHP 5.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some unit tests failed under PHP 5.6 because an argument to be passed by
reference was by value.
The affected tests now use ``_callRef`` in the ``AccessibleMock``.

This should solve those issues on HHVM as well.

Related: FLOW-194

* Commit: `5568cbd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5568cbdff1323974bbbe2b1644f8204db60e5543>`_

[BUGFIX] Properly support doctrine's indexBy attribute
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Doctrine allows an indexBy attribute at OneToMany and ManyToMany
relations. The current FlowAnnotationDriver removes this attribute.
This patch passes it forward again.

Functional tests are included.

* Related: `#44740 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/44740>`_
* Commit: `fcd2517 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fcd2517c4c1d8fcf802bbe922d215347d5515081>`_

[TASK] Suggest ext-curl in composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The curl PHP extension is used in the HTTP client CurlEngine and thus
this change marks it as suggested in the composer manifest.

* Commit: `0d41f8b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0d41f8b6f38c204efcd8d0f716e832b5469f981e>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix typo in PHPDoc for method getParameters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes a typo in the PHPDoc for the method
getParameters in file TYPO3\\Flow\\Reflection\\MethodReflection

* Commit: `d4d3da0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d4d3da09499689aa05ee3b6eb712b203fd3276f7>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix typo in PHPDoc for method createSchema
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes a typo in the PHPDoc for the method
createSchema in file TYPO3\\Flow\\Persistence\\Doctrine\\Service

* Commit: `85f10fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/85f10fd17e8da3d7f1fc270569180d07796eaeef>`_

[BUGFIX] Package keys with different case should not be allowed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Composer packages could change their Flow package key case, the package
manager needs to prevent registering the same package twice.

Fixes: FLOW-156

* Commit: `20410ba <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/20410ba5cae53afba7017c60265409c6b54ea665>`_

[TASK] Make i18n locale fallback rule handling a bit more robust
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the locale fallback rule for the i18n framework is given without order an
exception is thrown. A missing strict flag on the fallback rule is set to the
default (FALSE) as implied by the documentation.

* Commit: `cf4ed12 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/cf4ed12242f0fc9adbbd0583be4d16698cfbfdf6>`_

[BUGFIX] Properly resolve case of Subpackage Key in ActionRequest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``ActionRequest::getControllerSubpackageKey()`` failed to return the
correctly cased subpackage key.
This is not the case for the other ``getController*()`` getters and
can lead to issues (e.g. "Template could not be loaded" Fluid
exceptions on case-sensitive file systems.

This change adjusts the ``getControllerSubpackageKey()`` method to
``getControllerName()`` which already uses the correctly cased
controllerObjectName to extract the controller name.

Fixes: FLOW-126

* Commit: `db46cfc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/db46cfcbb79ced6caf26f1c0c5ca175f9a5cc95f>`_

[TASK] Fix warnings during reStructuredText rendering
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This tweaks rst files to get rid of some warnings that are emitted
during documentation rendering.

* Commit: `01d314d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/01d314d113cf5f58ef408580bb28ca4f9e17371a>`_

[TASK] Remove inaccessible code from ArrayConverter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Remove code that is currently inaccessible, because the constant
STRING_FORMAT_SERIALIZED is not defined in the class.

Unserializing from untrusted sources should not be done anyway
so we remove this possibility completely instead of adding the constant.

A use case which would require an unserialize for array conversion is complex
enough to be handled in a dedicated type converter class which exactly fits the use case
instead of providing a potentially insecure shortcut for that (unserialize) in the framework.

* Commit: `491eaa7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/491eaa7f7434a245f2e4c685a90499a6fc6b7b4c>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to "Add Configuration for Doctrine Filters"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.persistence.schema.yaml`` according to the
"Add Configuration for Doctrine Filters" change introduced with
If8582f8d138a7e46b8b77fc3c4b83b78bfc93bba.

* Commit: `8ae8b37 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8ae8b37f665fd4f81cc745b07176f8fa19ec9e6e>`_

[BUGFIX] Package meta data do not contain package type.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When loading packages using the PackageManager class, the associated
MetaData instance is not initialized with the package type.

* Commit: `12e98e4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/12e98e4930507a4c53b484169a2d1c430d2ecd3a>`_

[BUGFIX] AOP works with __clone call on parent objects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If, for example, you extend an entity which implements __clone
the AOP Framework breaks with an warning in development mode,
that it cannot access Flow_Aop_Proxy_targetMethodsAndGroupedAdvices.

Solution is to check  if the private
Flow_Aop_Proxy_targetMethodsAndGroupedAdvices property is
accessible and otherwise skipping the Advice call.

* Related: `#37571 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37571>`_
* Commit: `0850d92 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0850d92ccd0f26a46d19f2bd92833ca3918725bd>`_

[BUGFIX] Log exceptions recursively in ``SystemLogger::logException()``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change "post mortem" information about the complete exception
chain is logged, and not only for the outer exception.

This also adds some cosmetic and non-functional cleanups in order to
increase readability and IDE support:

* Import FQN where applicable
* Remove unused import statements

Fixes: FLOW-159
(cherry picked from commit 38602eb9d09ee6ad87a74352eadfaa17312d547c)

* Commit: `c9636be <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c9636be69c48431d46f2589cad3a28e05d4c5257>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust CommandLine documentation to refactored console output
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the ``CommandLine`` section of the documentation to
changes introduced with Ia77c62b41fb598bdfb7b81c530494ba819a590d1.

* Related: `#49016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49016>`_
* Commit: `0bb8bac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0bb8bac767b07a45367514447b318b43bd93c154>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw exception when trying to reflect a non-existing class
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously the ``ReflectionService`` ignored classes that couldn't be
loaded. It just logged an error and marked the respective class
"unconfigurable".
This leads to weird side effects that are hard to track down.

With this change an exception is thrown during compile time whenever
a class is being reflected that couldn't be loaded.

If a class or file should be skipped during reflection, the
``excludeClasses`` can be used::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      object:
        excludeClasses:
          'Some.PackageKey': ['Some\\\\Class\\\\Name']

Fixes: FLOW-128

* Commit: `0ded0a4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0ded0a4c4ab81c58bc6ee5e4848f2b3833004f08>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Render Form CSRF token field only if authenticated
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently ``CSRF`` tokens are only enforced if an account is
authenticated. But the form ViewHelper rendered the corresponding
hidden field for all forms with method != "GET".

Background:

Rendering the hidden field did not have a side effect before but as
CSRF tokens only make sense with an active session,
``Security\\Context::getCsrfProtectionToken()`` will be adjusted to start
a session when called. Therefore the token should only be fetched if it's
really required.

Related: FLOW-130

* Commit: `54652d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/54652d0be5f09222b5fbd23bd63c3da87fda3d2d>`_

[TASK] Streamline regular expression for Resource URLs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The regular expression to split templates finding resource URLs
is prone to breaking in case the match grows too long because it
has no boundaries. This change stops the match earlier, this also
massively increases the matching speed.

* Commit: `27772f9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/27772f9727b649322150f7f8a4a7bbdba8ecc2b9>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Fix links in TYPO3.Welcome template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes some links still pointing to forge.type.org.

* Commit: `aa14622 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/aa14622cac46ce6ed134f69ffd6e5428c007440d>`_
