====================
2.3.6
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Nested object literals not supported
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The parser does not support nested object literals like::

  {bar: {foo: 'baz'}}

but only object literals containing literal values.

Fixes: FLOW-314

* Commit: `74e4b74 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/74e4b7493128ae6841a7019f2158d73c1c71d2d9>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://jenkins.neos.io/job/typo3-flow-release/52/

* Commit: `1236c6c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1236c6c9c786cad77c37d586b24dd52031c4987d>`_

Revert "[BUGFIX] ObjectArray should use TypeHandling::getTypeForValue"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit aaf355b041fff0664d7f7f1c0093d6ba235579e0.

* Commit: `c3aa8a4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c3aa8a4967ad5f027c88eb38e409b06c98d25882>`_

[BUGFIX] ObjectArray should use TypeHandling::getTypeForValue
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ObjectArray used get_class() to get the type of given $value. This
change changes that to using TypeHandling::getTypeForValue.

This fixes problems where for example class names of doctrine
proxies are used instead of the entity class name.

Resolves: FLOW-206

* Commit: `aaf355b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/aaf355b041fff0664d7f7f1c0093d6ba235579e0>`_

[BUGFIX] Make rewriteFilenameForUri handle non-ASCII names correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the filename consists completely of non-ASCII characters,
the ``rewriteFilenameForUri`` would substitute it with empty filename
like ".jpg", resulting in a broken resource link.

This change makes ``rewriteFilenameForUri`` accept unicode character.
In addition it checks if the filename is empty after the rewrite and
names it "unnamed.<fileExtension>" if needed.

Fixes: FLOW-99

* Commit: `ffe140f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ffe140fcc2e0f3f9d9c3fe67efba8477b95fb3da>`_

[BUGFIX] 1st level cache for ``QueryResult::count()``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Counting the results of the ``QueryResultInterface`` proxy that is
returned by Repository finder methods always executed a ``COUNT query``,
even if the results have been fetched or counted already.

With this patch the number of results is cached as soon as the
result is initialized and/or counted once.

Fixes: FLOW-326

* Commit: `6ae8349 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6ae83490ea1a5b52ae1748b56a9066380cc391db>`_

[BUGFIX] Accept incoming HTTPS headers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes a check from ``Http\\Headers`` that prevented any header
starting with "HTTP".

Background:
A recent version of Google Chrome seems to send a ``HTTPS`` header
for requests via SSL (see
https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=501095).
This header translates to ``$_SERVER['HTTP_HTTPS']`` which triggered
the exception.

Fixes: FLOW-324

* Commit: `c1c000e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c1c000e8b1032ea7e189bb16e861d198063f8151>`_

[BUGFIX] Make ``resource://`` URIs work with 40 character Package Keys
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Flow ``ResourceStreamWrapper`` transparently handles resource URLs
in the formats ``resource://<SHA1>`` (referring to the SHA1 hash of a
Flow Resource) and ``resource://Package.Key/some/path`` (referring to
a local file path relative to the specified package's Resources
directory).

Currently the detection of a SHA1 hash is unreliably only checking for
the string length being 40 characters. If a Package Key happens to be
exactly 40 characters long, static resources can't be loaded.
This change fixes the issue by replacing the ``strlen`` check with a
simple regular expression lookup that only accepts valid SHA1 hashes.

Fixes: FLOW-250

* Commit: `f0838a6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f0838a6ed86123dd3c31b8c1c0926d02197651c0>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix warning about undefined index in Autowiring
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Autowiring annotation did not check the existence the existence of
the value key, leading to a warning, followed by an exception, when
the annotation was used like::

  Autowiring(enable=false)

instead of::

  Autowiring(false)

and the ReflectionService was asked for reflection data on such a class.

The same problem could affect Proxy annotation, so it is fixed as well.

* Commit: `c7b4b1a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c7b4b1ae16fb60958aecbca14129ff489bd44c99>`_

[BUGFIX] Safeguard against undefined index
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The methods shutdown() and warmup() use an index that may not be
defined. This is the case e.g. immediately after the configuration
cache has been flushed.

This change adds a check for the first level of the tested path in the
internal configuration array.

Fixes: FLOW-310

* Commit: `eee4358 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/eee43588f8b5f7269b92dd63b2409ffad6809ade>`_

[TASK] Fix rST rendering warnings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `64dccc0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/64dccc026a79c0d29108b0e815d19e1e67786e0f>`_

[TASK] Show version and release in front matter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `abf834a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/abf834a0428192d9a56b223938451fc2f9396190>`_

[TASK] Simplify appendix TOC generation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `0100a52 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0100a52dddc0d358457d2285192749f28868a6d7>`_

[TASK] Rename Index.rst to index.rst
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is our workaround for an issue with rtfd.org so the documentation
can be browsed when it has been rendered there.

(See https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/1279 for details.)

* Commit: `0099df3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0099df3cc8cd2e4d55b47de657ffc3d3da2a200a>`_

[TASK] Switch to plain Sphinx build configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Switches to a more standard setup for rendering rST using Sphinx. A
simple ``make html`` renders the documentation, if sphinx is installed.

The ``conf.py`` contains a tweak to allow using the RTD theme without
confusing the renderer over at RDT itself.

* Commit: `ac0f252 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ac0f252af04b9622116b412cbbe5120a840e1eda>`_

[BUGFIX] ReflectionService should use normalized simple types
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The method parameter and property type reflection should contain
type names for simple types that are already normalized so you can
rely on that in comparisons later on. The method `expandType` now
normalizes the type if it detects a simple type.

* Commit: `cae8205 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/cae8205d1cb8d78354e34df5415af238532d2c4a>`_

[TASK] Add missing ChangeLogs to documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `37c4954 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/37c4954b74b57ebb3edbe58dc59687e72c24dc16>`_

[BUGFIX] Only monitor YAML files in global Configuration folder
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The generated `IncludeCachedConfigurations.php` file was also
monitored for changes which actually resulted in configuration
changes on each hit in development.

* Commit: `8d12e77 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8d12e775d3fba77f8407435037a7d89754294421>`_

[BUGFIX] Support serialization of classes with static properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When trying to serialize a proxied class that contains static
properties an exception is thrown::

  Runtime Notice: Accessing static property [...] as non static

The reason is that the ``DependencyInjection\\\\ProxyClassBuilder``
overrides the magic ``__sleep()`` method of the proxy class, accessing
all properties as ``$this->\\$propertyName``.

This change fixes the issue by skipping static properties.

Fixes: FLOW-282

* Commit: `df0436a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/df0436a0989fc4d01ae7656d75468e95de84ee87>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Only count items in ForViewHelper when ``iteration`` argument is set
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the ``iteration`` argument, the ``ForViewHelper`` provides
information about the current iteration, including the ``cycle`` and
``total``. Therefore it needs to count all elements.
The problem is, that this happens even if the iteration argument is
not specified leading to performance issues especially when iterating
over a (subset of a) lot of (remote) items.

This patch fixes this by adding a check for the ``iteration`` argument.

Fixes: FLOW-325

* Commit: `55efb11 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/55efb11eec400be36ef01f5f6113ff139653f928>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

