`2.3.9 (2015-12-17) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/2.3.9>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`[BUGFIX] Don't unlink lock file <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/179>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unlinking the lock file again causes race conditions which the
locking should prevent in the first place. Until we found out a
solid way to do this we need to keep those files even though
this is not optimal due to the high amount of inodes those lock
files use up.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Generate PSR2 based code and some cleanup <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/175>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes the TYPO3 brand name and updates some invalid links.

* Packages: ``Kickstart``

`BUGFIX: Fix documentation example <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/180>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation example for translating error messages has to use parameter 'id' instead of 'key'.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update CGL to match the PSR-2 standard <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/54>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[TASK] Break after 10000 lock attempts <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/174>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``FlockLockStrategy`` should at some point always be able
to aquire a lock even if it takes a while. But to prevent really
long running processes that interlock each other a natural
boundary to the amount of lock attempts is introduced.
The strategy will throw an exception after 10000 tries to aquire
the lock file. Depending on the results of random the maximum time
to reach this upper boundary is about 2 seconds.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Ignore warning on failed stat <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/173>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We check if the stat call in ``FlockLockStrategy`` returned false anyway and
can safely suppress the generated warning.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Update \`\`doctrine/orm\`\` to 2.4 for PHP 7 compatibility <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/162>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents segmentation faults caused by Doctrine.

Excludes support for ``EntityListeners`` annotation introduced for 3.0

`[TASK] Tweak routing documentation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/170>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust Routing chapter to the placeholder support
in routing defaults introduced with FLOW-76

* Related: `FLOW-76 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-76>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Support for special characters in \`\`PositionalArraySorter\`\` keys <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/171>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the ``PositionalArraySorter`` one can position keys
relative to other keys with ``before/after <key>``.
But for the ``<key>`` only ``[a-zA-Z0-9]`` were allowed limiting the
functionality especially when dealing with package keys that contain
a dot.

This change adjusts the regular expression to allow any string to be
referenced.

* Fixes: `FLOW-422 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-422>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`Add missing namespace import for @Flow\\Scope <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/165>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] PHP 7 compatibility <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/160>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Adjust check for maximum path length <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/152>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The SimpleFileBackend did a check for maximum path length
on construction but reserved an arbitrary length of 23 for cache
entry identifiers. Many identifiers are longer though and so even
if the exception was not triggered cache entries could fail to be
written.
This change moves the check to after a failed cache writing attempt
to check against the actual cache entry path.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Use wrapper for phpunit to catch segfaults <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/156>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This uses a wrapper around the unit tests to handle an exit code of 139
as a non-error.

This happens when testing on Travis CI and while those error happen, we
cannot do much else about it.

`[BUGFIX] Lock files shouldn't be opened twice <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/155>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents opening lock files twice, first in read then in
write mode. Only one open should happen if successful.
The change fixes that.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Fix PHP 5.3 compatibility issues <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/153>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The 2.3 branch should be compatible to PHP 5.3, but since we did not have automated
testing in place on that version of PHP, some incompatibilties have crept in.

This fixes those issues and enables the unit and functional tests to be run on PHP 5.3
on Travis CI.

Also the Behat tests for Flow are run with this, since there is no reason they shouldn't.

`Prevent invalid Cookie pairs from raising errors <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/144>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Formally a Cookie header should consist of semi-colon separated pairs
of ``key=value`` but some clients might sent invalid cookie headers
resulting in a notice raised when there was no equals sign to split a
pair on.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Remove unused method in SimpleFileBackend <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/151>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``generateTemporaryPathAndFilename`` is no longer in use
since the introduction of locking last year, it can therefore
be removed.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] FlockLockStrategy should clean up lock files <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/138>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The FlockLockStrategy creates files to apply the lock on.
These files reside in the temporary folder but are never cleaned
on releasing the Lock that means the amount of files in this folder
will increase over time unless the folder is cleared manually.

Additionally cleans the code a bit and reduces chance of race
conditions while creating the lock.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Remove typo3.org SSO provider from Flow <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/150>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is no longer used and should have never been part of the framework
itself, to begin with.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Ignore race condition on cached Configuration include <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/135>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It can happen that the cache include file was already removed
by a subrequest before getting to the unlink. The warning that
would follow can safely be ignored.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] FastCGI compatible resources \`\`.htaccess\`\` file <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/137>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``.htaccess`` file in ``Web/_Resources`` contained php_flag,
which requires the ``mod_php`` module to be installed. Since FastCGI
setups don't have this module, an invalid command error is thrown.

In this change the flag is wrapped in ``IfModule`` tags to avoid that error,
and the ``SetHandler`` statement is added a second time in a ``Files`` tag
to avoid it being overwritten in certain cases.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Roles are refreshed after setting authentication status <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/136>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Otherwise getRoles() might act on the wrong value of the overall
authentication status stored in the authentication manager.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[!!!][BUGFIX] Store site lock in Flow temporary base path <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/97>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Storing the site lock files in the system temporary directory
could lead to endless locks on some file systems.
This changes the site locks to be stored in the Flow temporary base
path again.

This is a breaking change because it removes the setting
``TYPO3.Flow.utility.environment.temporaryDirectoryBase`` in favor of
a new environment variable ``FLOW_PATH_TEMPORARY_BASE`` that allows for
changing the path if needed.

Background:

FLOW-348 introduced a new locking mechanism that stored lock files
in the systems default temporary folder determined via
``sys_get_temp_dir()``. On some systems files created there by the
PHP process could not be removed afterwards.

* Related: `FLOW-348 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-348>`_
* Resolves: `FLOW-381 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-381>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/2.3.8...2.3.9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
