====================
3.0.0-beta5
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Tweak ``create-changelog.sh`` script to link issues
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Replaces Jira ticket references like "* Fixes: `FLOW-123 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-123>`_" with
links to the actual ticket.

* Commit: `a73e2c9 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/a73e2c9e6e85c433020e725a17f6a65af02beca1>`_

[BUGFIX] Use more specific version of doctrine/migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pins the version to a release candidate
(~1.0.0 is specified in TYPO3.Flow) instead of the dev-master version
that is implied by "@dev".

* Fixes: `FLOW-343 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-343>`_
* Commit: `8147329 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/8147329bdfd073cf6ef5e7877de1c6387c82f486>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[FEATURE] Path filter for Fizzle grammar
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Until now only object identifiers or property names (both without
slashes) could be matched. This change adds support for absolute and
relative paths.

* Related: `NEOS-1366 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1366>`_
* Related: `FLOW-342 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-342>`_

* Commit: `51d93a1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/51d93a12821872e931ac840e59a26a631cb29d5a>`_

[TASK] Add I18n Eel helper to provide translation methods
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Eel helper provides 3 different entry points.

 * By calling translate, you can pass all options at once
 * By calling translate with a shorthand string (PackageKey:Source:trans-unit-id),
   you can pass all options at once
 * By calling id or value, an object is created, that allows you to
   collect these options via method chaining.

The object for collection translation options implements a __toString
method, so that there is no need for a finishing method call.

* Related: `NEOS-1362 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1362>`_
* Commit: `728177b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/728177b1d6ebd51fb6203da65a074aee90182493>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix two unknown class usages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes two places where Exception was used and did not resolve to a
class.

(cherry picked from commit bc94d1283f6696a929af5f6764d2227508cbcc9c)

* Commit: `011ffa7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/011ffa7f240ba58f4d0a84346b21aad61e7369d6>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://jenkins.neos.io/job/Flow%20-%20Release/57/

* Commit: `6e2a802 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6e2a8026edc15fef266da5381aa3afb1228a78ae>`_

[FEATURE] Color support for core migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change allows core migrations to output colored texts.
This is especially useful for errors and warnings that are likely
to be overlooked due to the verbosity of core migration output.

Note:

This feature requires the ``posix`` PHP extension to be active
(``ANSICON``/``ConEmuANSI`` support on Windows).

* Related: `FLOW-223 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-223>`_
* Commit: `ab0fcd7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ab0fcd7f1a0630d7b3b558ea60c0728015cbf4b0>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow core migrations to be applied to non-git-repositories
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allows core migrations to be applied to packages that are not under
git version control.

With this change the log for core migrations is no longer tacked
through the git log history but with a new section
``applied-flow-migrations`` in the ``extra`` property of the composer
manifest.
This allows for keeping track of the core migration log independently
from a git repository.

The git log migration history is still respected and will be imported
into the ``composer.json`` file of a package as soon as core migrations
are executed.

This change also introduces a new flag ``--force`` that can be
specified in order to apply migrations even if the affected package is
not part of a git repository or contains local changes.

Background:

This is not marked FEATURE because it fixes a severe bug that prevented
migrations to be applied when having multiple packages in the same git
repository.

* Fixes: `FLOW-223 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-223>`_
* Commit: `b087d60 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b087d60f760590dd7474c48aea0beb4e82b81dc1>`_

[BUGFIX] Value objects get cascade deleted by default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Value objects are by nature not bound to single parent entities and exist by their own.
Currently, Flow automatically annotates relations to value objects as cascade='all' and
orphanRemoval=true. Doctrine itself states that orphanRemoval should only be set when
the related object is privately owned and not reused by other entities, which is not
generally true for value objects.
See http://doctrine-orm.readthedocs.org/en/latest/reference/working-with-associations.html#orphan-removal

This leads to exceptions when entities with a relation to an value object are deleted.

This change addresses that by setting cascading to 'persist' only for value objects and
not setting orphanRemoval on relations to value objects by default.

* Fixes: `FLOW-296 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-296>`_
* Commit: `786d002 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/786d002b8d67541f261970b21a264d9153918d71>`_

[BUGFIX] Tabs should be allowed in front of classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the proxy class ``Compiler`` uses a regular
expression that only allows spaces before the ``class``
keyword. So a class declaration:

  abstract<TAB>class Example ...

will not be correctly detected and compiled. Changing the
expression to allow any kind of whitespace character fixes
these edgecases.

* Fixes: `FLOW-86 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-86>`_
* Commit: `10e8a7f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/10e8a7f71092e8c411f31d81a049716c728617a8>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix permission of temporary files when importing resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When importing a site on ``Microsoft Windows 7/8`` an exception can be
thrown due to insufficient file permissions.
This change makes sure that the file permissions are fixed before a
temporary resource file is moved to its final location.

* Related: `NEOS-1334 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1334>`_

(cherry picked from commit 3cdac302dd1d2e04346493cb9926a2ade82ce01a)

* Commit: `4faeef9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4faeef93cc2670ac2c96f5d163a125de17a09fc8>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't skip schema validation for empty configurations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When performing a configuration validation via::

 ./flow configuration:validate

The validation was interrupted with an exception if one of the
parsed configuration types is empty (for example because no
``Views.yaml`` file existed).
This patch fixes the issue by replacing the exception with a
notice that can be outputted with the ``verbose`` flag.

* Fixes: `FLOW-332 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-332>`_

(cherry picked from commit 3d937c392ef6dd15382ad442b63cf411d999d132)

* Commit: `938e10c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/938e10ce521ae119bdec2696cdc22513911d704b>`_

[BUGFIX] Do not cast NULL to empty string in PropertyConditionGenerator
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the escaping of NULL values, the resulting SQL query did
a check against an empty string, not NULL values.

The PropertyConditionGenerator now holds the raw parameter values
to check against NULL values.

* Fixes: `FLOW-339 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-339>`_
* Commit: `8b2800f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8b2800f15fe2f5a50e030d4bc9a377258a928c77>`_

[TASK] Add example configuration to disable the routing cache
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

While developing route part handlers it is really useful to disable
the routing cache temporarily. This change adds an example configuration
in composer essentials installed using the installer. This can then
easily be used to create a local Caches.yaml

* Commit: `85e9312 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/85e9312fe521c150619bfcba5c6b58e20758dc97>`_

[BUGFIX] Relax YAML schema to allow custom ``requestPatterns``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the ``./flow configuration:validate`` command to verify that
the settings conform to the configuration schema, Flow complains with::

 Settings.TYPO3.Flow.security.authentication.providers.Typo3BackendProvider.requestPatterns.<pattern>
 -> This property is not allowed here, check the spelling if you think it belongs here.

when using custom requestPatterns.

This change relaxes the YAML schema to allow arbitrary requestPatterns.

* Fixes: `FLOW-344 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-344>`_

(cherry picked from commit d40e4b349c893580a10fda379358ad8bc8aaf0d3)

* Commit: `25cd942 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/25cd942664a0fdc919845030873c012bd080aa14>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow Aggregate Roots to extend non entity classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When an entity with a repository (= Aggregate Root) extends a
Plain Old PHP Class (no entity) the ``ReflectionService`` produced
a ``Undefined index`` notice when building the Class Schema.

This change fixes this by skipping parent classes that are not
persistable.

* Fixes: `FLOW-316 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-316>`_
* Commit: `f531eaa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f531eaa6c48b07a63864553e90b46d1e441f4915>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent depletion of inodes during migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of moving all files to the legacy location, creating
many folders, the migration now moves resources directly
to the final destination.

The second migration is a fallback for Flow installations
that are not fully migrated yet.

* Fixes: `FLOW-330 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-330>`_
* Commit: `4d25a7d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4d25a7d06753463ad8631a0b0dde26e3956f277e>`_

[BUGFIX] When moving resource files, check if expected file exists
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The moving of resource files in migrations Version20150611154419 and
Version20150611154421 did always happen, even if the expected target
did already exist. This lead to bogus warnings when a file was used by
more than one Resource instance.

On top of that, empty directories were never properly removed.

* Commit: `ac90a76 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ac90a765ff3d0a511cdf9e4cff8844bbad51f620>`_

[BUGFIX] Better moving of files in migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The migration that moves resource files around (Version20141118174722
for PostgreSQL) did not consider the case of multiple resources using
the same file. This change adjusts the code so it behaves like the
corresponding migration for MySQL, which has better handling for this.

* Fixes: `FLOW-323 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-323>`_
* Commit: `030073e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/030073e31ee216b10946c5d4cd4b98fb99ba2cb3>`_

[BUGFIX] Correctly close all streams opened from a Resource
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The resource opens a stream (e.g. file handle for the file
storage) when calling getStream() using the underyling storage. It's the
callers responsibility to close the stream after consuming the content.

This change adds some missing fclose() calls and adds an error check to
the ArrayConverter that results in better error messages when dealing
with broken resources.

* Fixes: `FLOW-341 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-341>`_
* Commit: `e1eb8ac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e1eb8ac471367022763a803d1d8c878585bfadfd>`_

[BUGFIX] Re-enable logging of ``Router::route()`` calls
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the implementation of `HTTP Components` we accidentally disabled
logging for calls to ``Router::route()``.

This patch adds the ``log()`` calls again.

Background:

The regression has been introduced with "[FEATURE] HTTP components for
handling requests" (Iac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40).

* Fixes: `FLOW-338 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-338>`_
* Related: `#52064 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52064>`_

* Commit: `a9c99fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a9c99fdb6ecde0b37b9a3895a84b4f99e6a91575>`_

[TASK] Do not proxy MethodPrivilege for performance
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As the method privilege is used rather often in a request even
simple method calls add up. The (unecessary) proxy for the
``MethodPrivilege`` adds some overhead in form of ``array_key_exists``
calls in the __constructor inherited from the ``AbstractPrivilege``.
Disabling the proxy removes this overhead.

* Fixes: `FLOW-337 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-337>`_
* Commit: `44e3b7f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/44e3b7f63317e3e432068637bf5af89058ae2323>`_

[TASK] Make PHP the default language for code blocks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation now uses PHP as default language for code blocks,
so that even when using just two colons to start a code-block it is
highlighted.

* Commit: `3aec362 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3aec3626af174c819e0da005fc5fd9fc07dbde61>`_

[BUGFIX] Behat Subprocess command should be properly escaped
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The behat subprocess command should be properly escaped to work
with paths that contain special characters.

* Commit: `09f6265 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/09f6265e01ad5eda6236f936511cd7f33d40b84e>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw 404 exception when updating a non-existing resource
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Specifying a non-existing identity when converting a persistent
object using the ``PersistentObjectConverter`` the ``PropertyMapper``
tries to apply conversions on the ``TargetNotFoundError`` instead of
returning the error directly.

Background:
The reason for this regression is the new ``TargetNotFoundError`` that
has been introduced with I5231ccddaef1a6b49e62bb29bdd3ff99dc2bb994 in
order to be able to handle that case more gracefully. Previously an
exception was thrown directly.

* Fixes: `FLOW-333 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-333>`_
* Related: `FLOW-197 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-197>`_

* Commit: `a6e00d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a6e00d00a77247423b2c3ff1312b2b49c5628c59>`_

[TASK] Add support for sphinx-autobuild in docs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds support for sphinx-autobuild, which watches the Documentation
directory and automatically re-renders docs when changed. This allows
for a livepreview while editing the docs. It also serves the pages via
the python-livereload server so they will be automatically refreshed
when the docs are re-rendered.

To use it, install `sphinx-autobuild`_::

    pip install sphinx-autobuild

To use livepreview just run ``make livehtml`` instead of ``make html``.
Then, visit http://127.0.0.1:8000 to see the livereload version of the
docs.

``make livehtml`` renders the docs exactly the same as ``make html``
does. A ``livereload.js`` script does get injected, but not by the
rendering process. The script gets injected on the fly by
python-livereload when serving the pages.

.. _sphinx-autobuild: https://github.com/GaretJax/sphinx-autobuild

* Commit: `6816685 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/681668508e192616365809e480e859deede52613>`_

[TASK] Add reference to the original file path in proxy class footer
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change add a PHP comment with the complete path to the original file
path. This is really useful for debug proxy, because detecting the location
of the real code is not easy.

* Commit: `c6b7347 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c6b734770e7ae6a43b344b677f3ba17957afd329>`_

[TASK] Make PHP highlighting work for snippets
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the "official" hack to turn on startinline for all php
codeblocks whether they're a snippet or a full file.

Sphinx and docutils don't support setting the startinline option for
pygments. That means that snippets of PHP code that don't have
"<?php ?>" don't get highlighted. The hack was documented here:
http://mbless.de/blog/2015/03/02/php-syntax-highlighting-in-sphinx.html
https://github.com/fabpot/sphinx-php

* Commit: `19e5110 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/19e5110df6e93115d09717a251b5b007f8dfafbb>`_

[TASK] Use a separate logger for I18n and missing translations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a separate logger for I18n related messages,
especially when translation labels are missing.

* Resolves: `FLOW-329 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-329>`_
* Commit: `1984c25 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1984c2554a846cd966eab9321c53197ce5b3f944>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Detect and warn about usage of "format.json" and "uri.*" ViewHelpers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "Consistent escaping behavior" change (FLOW-26) comes with a code
migration that adjusts custom ViewHelpers to disable escaping in order
to stay backwards compatible.

But the behavior of some core ViewHelpers has changed. Especially
``f:format.json`` and ``f:uri.*`` ViewHelpers now apply
``htmlspecialchars`` to their output for security and consistency
reasons.

This change adds a warning for every HTML file that makes use of one of
those ViewHelpers to give the developer a heads-up.

* Resolves: `FLOW-319 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-319>`_
* Related: `FLOW-26 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-26>`_

* Commit: `168df42 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/168df42ce80f557801f2942f7131614dd1e19c97>`_

[TASK] Allow arbitrary characters in array/object keys
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allow arbitrary characters in array/object keys to support more
possible keys, e.g. @action argument for the link view helper.

* Related: `FLOW-248 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-248>`_
* Commit: `21a1c3d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/21a1c3d77784505231a557a34157afa30db9c85e>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

