====================
3.0.0-beta4
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Add flowpack/behat to distribution
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have Behat tests in the Flow package, but the base distribution
lacks the needed tooling to easily run them. With this change, you can
do this::

  cd Build/Behat
  composer install

When this is finished, running the tests is possible::

  bin/behat --ansi -f progress -v -c Packages/Framework/TYPO3.Flow/Tests/Behavior/behat.yml.dist

* Commit: `b6894cf <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/b6894cf18a91bf72a983867f78c8e6b56f34fd88>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Nested object literals not supported
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The parser does not support nested object literals like::

  {bar: {foo: 'baz'}}

but only object literals containing literal values.

Fixes: FLOW-314

* Commit: `ce2b6fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/ce2b6fd6dd21dc94cc87287ffedebc64a691c653>`_

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e65be42 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/e65be4222c9ace0da50bfa850ac0d18aebd044dd>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://jenkins.neos.io/job/typo3-flow-release/55/

* Commit: `c93075e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c93075e5b4d93bc2770259d3bee27f5976d3d643>`_

[BUGFIX] Reset class loader after recompiling proxies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The class loader holds a list of available proxy classes to prevent
unnecessary calls to the proxy class cache. This list is loaded early
in the bootstrap and needs to be refreshed when a sub request changed
the proxies.

Fixes: FLOW-309

* Commit: `24c772c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/24c772c0041e3e7e71b28519b4508fdd1ff01440>`_

[BUGFIX] Support composer ``replace`` directive
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Packages that are required but were replaced by using ``replace`` (see
https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#replace) in ``composer.json``
would to load with Flow as the replaced package would have no name
in the package map.
Ignoring the dependency is no problem as we do not use it anywhere
where replaced packages could be important.

This is a bugfix that should be replaced with a more robust solution in
a future Flow version. For example by not trying to match composer
requirements to Flow packages.

Fixes: FLOW-287

* Commit: `ac278f0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ac278f01043949bd064198aabc58fce494194262>`_

[BUGFIX] Filenames need to be rawurlencoded
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The new resource management does not urlencode filenames of resources
in URLs. This leads to invalid URLs for file paths/names containing
special characters or spaces.

This patch fixes the issue by applying ``rawurlencode()`` to all path
segments in ``FileSystemTarget::getPublicStaticResourceUri()`` and
``FileSystemTarget::getPublicPersistentResourceUri()``

Fixes: FLOW-321

* Commit: `52fdf44 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/52fdf4486fd8a96bfd7f565280406cf2771c1428>`_

[BUGFIX] Use rawurl(de|en)code in path segments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

According to RFC 3986 the space character has to be percent
encoded (%20) which is correctly done by ``rawurlencode``.
Using ``urlencode`` will lead to spaces being encoded as ``+`` signs
which is technically incorrect for path segments and should only happen
for query string values.

* Commit: `ada82e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ada82e5d1c88ff53eb2a968b09f5a44c8176b29d>`_

[TASK] Decrease session GC probability to 1% (was 30%)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Garbage collection of expired sessions should occur less often since
it's trigger for every third request right now on average. A 1% value
matches the PHP default value and should be sufficient for most setups.

Resolves: FLOW-146

* Commit: `c253748 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c253748c04e7e0c32ba95a14243a835ab24c5e07>`_

[BUGFIX] 1st level cache for ``QueryResult::count()``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Counting the results of the ``QueryResultInterface`` proxy that is
returned by Repository finder methods always executed a ``COUNT query``,
even if the results have been fetched or counted already.

With this patch the number of results is cached as soon as the
result is initialized and/or counted once.

Fixes: FLOW-326

* Commit: `0463ac2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0463ac2198ebe09dab5cc0975b380757139f2222>`_

[TASK] Update "Quickstart" tutorial
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the Quickstart tutorial to be in sync with recent Flow changes.

Resolves: FLOW-298

* Commit: `0c8c6a9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0c8c6a933acbfe426f7629432b9620c52bdbba67>`_

[TASK] Support dynamic return types for PhpStorm IDE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds configuration for the PhpStorm IDE so it can infer the
return type of the get() method in ObjectManagerInterface.

* Commit: `35aa985 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/35aa9859fce5aec088aa31e39ae4e010b7958e73>`_

[BUGFIX] Accept incoming HTTPS headers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes a check from ``Http\\Headers`` that prevented any header
starting with "HTTP".

Background:
A recent version of Google Chrome seems to send a ``HTTPS`` header
for requests via SSL (see
https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=501095).
This header translates to ``$_SERVER['HTTP_HTTPS']`` which triggered
the exception.

Fixes: FLOW-324

* Commit: `749431c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/749431c001f2546edde390444e608d292903f92b>`_

[TASK] Tweak doc comments in two classes.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1f733dc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1f733dcdb0f7c5b3b41cb1c5d028d1bc14c7267f>`_

[BUGFIX] Failing unit test in ``XliffModelTest``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Regression of `I3b5f7e06eca6a2e7e7aa31148c1d031295964c92`
which didn't adjust the test accordingly.

* Commit: `b83f1a2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b83f1a270271a31c224deb2a8f118926d4b47fb6>`_

[TASK] Lower log level for I18n sub package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change lower the log level of the I18n package from LOG_WARNING
to LOG_DEBUG.

* Commit: `ace4cd8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ace4cd8af244b1262aa49a7d561cd476c92d3791>`_

[BUGFIX] Clear PHP Opcode Caches in Caching, PackageManager and ConfigurationManager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This solves a lot of bugs when people use a wrongly configured
opcode cache (e.g. part of Bitnami MAMP stack).

Check the ticket for further background and how I could reproduce
the error on Bitnami MAMP stack.

Thanks to the TYPO3 CMS project for inspiration on the solution!

Resolves: FLOW-320

(cherry picked from commit ad3b949d65dc2f1d585a28119452692a153f2f4f)

* Commit: `fb0be1d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fb0be1d7be3ea31143848574f53399f45e11e79d>`_

[BUGFIX] Make ``resource://`` URIs work with 40 character Package Keys
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Flow ``ResourceStreamWrapper`` transparently handles resource URLs
in the formats ``resource://<SHA1>`` (referring to the SHA1 hash of a
Flow Resource) and ``resource://Package.Key/some/path`` (referring to
a local file path relative to the specified package's Resources
directory).

Currently the detection of a SHA1 hash is unreliably only checking for
the string length being 40 characters. If a Package Key happens to be
exactly 40 characters long, static resources can't be loaded.
This change fixes the issue by replacing the ``strlen`` check with a
simple regular expression lookup that only accepts valid SHA1 hashes.

Fixes: FLOW-250

* Commit: `32afbfd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/32afbfde044869a5b20c02349db221c1206a614e>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix warning about undefined index in Autowiring
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Autowiring annotation did not check the existence the existence of
the value key, leading to a warning, followed by an exception, when
the annotation was used like::

  Autowiring(enable=false)

instead of::

  Autowiring(false)

and the ReflectionService was asked for reflection data on such a class.

The same problem could affect Proxy annotation, so it is fixed as well.

* Commit: `0e33477 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0e3347781903cb1dfc2db2861cfe23670511c2e5>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent creation of too many directories for resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently resource files are stored by splitting the ``SHA1`` hash
into chunks of 5 characters in order to prevent the creation of too
many files per directory (for performance reasons).
This has been implemented with the new "Multi-Storage / Multi-Target
Resource Management" (see Ia2b47b4070a2dfabf4833bf1f0f3967ba3b032a7).

The drawback of the current implementation is that it leads to the
creation of a directory per file which strains the file system, too.

With this change a persistent resource will no longer be stored in::

  Data/Persistent/c828d/0f88c/e197b/e1aff/7cc2e/5e86b/12442/41ac6/c828d0f88ce197be1aff7cc2e5e86b1244241ac6

But::

  Data/Persistent/c/8/2/8/c828d0f88ce197be1aff7cc2e5e86b1244241ac6

leading to a tremendously reduced amount of folders to be created.

This also adjusts the path of *published* resources from::

  /_Resources/Persistent/c828d/0f88c/e197b/e1aff/7cc2e/5e86b/12442/41ac6/The-File-Name.ext

to::

  /_Resources/Persistent/c/8/2/8/c828d0f88ce197be1aff7cc2e5e86b1244241ac6/The-File-Name.ext

Note: This is only true, if the ``subdivideHashPathSegment`` is set
for the corresponding ``PublishingTarget``. Otherwise the path is not
changed.

Related: FLOW-294

* Commit: `c960cbb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c960cbb9aba79aba5ac7ae88e5667b99edd062d8>`_

[TASK] Show expected targetType on "Object not found" errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the ``PersistentObjectConverter`` cannot find an object by
given identity the error message shows the identity but not the
expected oject type. Adding it helps a lot in debugging such errors.

* Commit: `c7dace4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c7dace4025ac953f4ee58874e6def996539bfd43>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow explicit privileges for ``Everybody`` role
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``TYPO3.Flow:Everybody`` role that is always active by design gets
an ``ABSTAIN`` permission for all defined ``PrivilegeTargets`` so that
permission to restricted privileges is not granted by default.

Due to a bug this ``ABSTAIN`` permission was also set when a privilege
was explicitly configured for the ``Everybody`` role as soon as the
same ``PrivilegeTarget`` was used for another role, effectively
overriding the permission.

This change allows for explicitly allowing or denying privileges to the
``Everybody`` role. It also adds some unit tests for the
``PolicyService``.

Fixes: FLOW-308

* Commit: `0872cf7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0872cf75a0242c1921d4824c80f77dc783b60efd>`_

[TASK] Add missing changelogs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e0580d7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e0580d7fe3a921a57e8e4842ba702d4459392aa6>`_

[TASK] Fix rST rendering warnings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3da1e60 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3da1e60db11e4dbc69d1fa30d96e1efd4ff204b9>`_

[TASK] Show version and release in front matter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `47aff35 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/47aff35ea048c5ea54342bf35b0dd7a672f778ac>`_

[TASK] Simplify appendix TOC generation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `224d75b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/224d75b8878963446b5939959936796dd3cff30b>`_

[TASK] Rename Index.rst to index.rst
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is our workaround for an issue with rtfd.org so the documentation
can be browsed when it has been rendered there.

(See https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/1279 for details.)

* Commit: `36020fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/36020fdff56cfb999ac3e3ccc4633363d09d5ddf>`_

[TASK] Switch to plain Sphinx build configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Switches to a more standard setup for rendering rST using Sphinx. A
simple ``make html`` renders the documentation, if sphinx is installed.

The ``conf.py`` contains a tweak to allow using the RTD theme without
confusing the renderer over at RDT itself.

* Commit: `daa8645 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/daa864505197f3caba7b968f3819e48c26492689>`_

[BUGFIX] Relax YAML schema to work with PECL parser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the `Objects.yaml` schema so that::

  ./flow configuration:validate

does not complain about::

 Objects.TYPO3.Flow.DateTime.autowiring -> expected: type=string found: type=boolean

Background:
The PECL YAML parser interprets the strings "on" and "off" as booleans
so we need to adjust the schema accordingly.

* Commit: `9bd0edb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9bd0edbe1439c6021f6e7483c272ec66ac78bb14>`_

[BUGFIX] ReflectionService should use normalized simple types
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The method parameter and property type reflection should contain
type names for simple types that are already normalized so you can
rely on that in comparisons later on. The method `expandType` now
normalizes the type if it detects a simple type.

* Commit: `db7b57c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/db7b57c22e281d43939b003c4244079986028e9f>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust YAML schema to recent changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Make ignoredClasses for debugger
configurable in settings" feature
(If4a692168d317cbcb7527fb28ebb113705f7c500) adjusting the YAML schema.

Related: NEOS-1140

* Commit: `d97f6d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d97f6d0705285d551d3996692e55f444e7d8abf3>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust YAML schema to recent changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Centralized Neos user domain service"
feature (I8a4c7010e25842583538e32dc8ef9cd851f306b4)
adjusting the YAML schema.

Related: NEOS-962

* Commit: `e362059 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e362059222022d68676daa0c49e4be771af439de>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust YAML schema to recent changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Make custom Doctrine mapping types
configurable" feature (Iab0f14117b30a4924a7947af44b9516c241912da)
adjusting the YAML schema.

This also tweaks the existing schema rules according to our CGL.

* Related: `#33838 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33838>`_
* Commit: `1cf6b11 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1cf6b11defddbc366091900663e92926229f91d5>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust YAML schema to "Persistent Caches"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Persistent Caches" feature
(I0e18122d74807a75c6e544c5074c8e924e21c649) adjusting the YAML schema.

Related: FLOW-261

* Commit: `23fccaa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/23fccaa04c06f989dece376396e3dd388af59b1b>`_

[BUGFIX] EntityPrivilege expressions should be trimmed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The EelEvaluator trims expressions before parsing as spaces at the
beginning or end might break the parser for no good reason. Same
is done in the ``EntityPrivilegeExpressionParser`` now.

* Commit: `281db4f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/281db4f45afe8cdea1435b02c1245348adb9f731>`_

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `6ed21d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6ed21d030cddbf0d2db5f19747ac63450a6b8f53>`_

[BUGFIX] Controller changes trigger AOP class rebuild
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a pragmatic fix to avoid clearing all caches when
you add an action to a protected controller. Controllers will now
be watched by the FileMonitor to trigger rebuilding the policy
information.

* Commit: `f326e56 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f326e5662bd87d1d3394c6e7615792481926db55>`_

[TASK] Improve PackageManager speed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The main improvement is the addition of a first level cache for
composer manifest data that was read once to avoid reading the
files multiple times.

Additionally the package path is reused in the ``PackageFactory``
to reduce the amount of concatinated path segments.

* Commit: `2c09a14 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2c09a14946ce67ba3cbffe9b033b64dd2c45d082>`_

[TASK] Use StringFrontend for HashService cache
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The use of StringFrontend was intended, but not configured in
Caches.yaml, so a VariableFrontend was used instead for the persistent
cache.

* Commit: `a2bb86d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a2bb86d5abb906ee64c9df38c2e5802340f7bbf4>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix doc comment about string comparison in IfViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The inline documentation in the ``IfViewHelper`` states, that strings
can not be compared directly but arrays should be used as workaround.
This isn't true anymore since direct string comparison works.

Fixes: FLOW-328

* Commit: `7c4bafc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/7c4bafc7fb3a8edfa9392ec1991081d5660577e2>`_

[BUGFIX] Only count items in ForViewHelper when ``iteration`` argument is set
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the ``iteration`` argument, the ``ForViewHelper`` provides
information about the current iteration, including the ``cycle`` and
``total``. Therefore it needs to count all elements.
The problem is, that this happens even if the iteration argument is
not specified leading to performance issues especially when iterating
over a (subset of a) lot of (remote) items.

This patch fixes this by adding a check for the ``iteration`` argument.

Fixes: FLOW-325

* Commit: `bc7d8e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/bc7d8e55c6c5a7777d12ab51eb1ce4f5c76cf243>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix support for mixed case namespace identifiers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts the ``TemplateParser`` to support namespace aliases
containing upper case characters::

  {namespace someNamespace=Some\\Package\\ViewHelpers}
  <someNamespace:someViewHelper />

Without this fix the above ViewHelper tag would not be resolved but
rendered as is.

Background:
This is a regression introduced with the stricter namespace resolution
(see I9c63e7d0b116f9d1baabf09c6c18e97d8deb83fa).

Fixes: FLOW-290
Related: FLOW-150

* Commit: `0266ad1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/0266ad152cb3d5b10fe772921e4ec7a6301d234e>`_

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `6068cde <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/6068cde9e3416ca03f4b8912495c1a9b73439da8>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b211042 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/b21104262d84bee6442043469887e6ba03630cf4>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `9a177ad <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/9a177adc45ed9e65e8351102287f66560f2b7f94>`_

