====================
3.0.0-beta1
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Remove TYPO3.Party from set-dependencies.sh
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `fee8e37 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/fee8e377b5d6ccab611fbc609c029b4433ac3977>`_

[TASK] Remove unintentional typo3/party requirement
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8f4c023 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/8f4c023b741f945aa5e0e4b076cf0a3720298767>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/6/

* Commit: `35d0e78 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/35d0e78153122d74437f5c8d1dc3ee8bf7c552f0>`_

[TASK] Update PHPUnit requirement to 4.5.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates PHPUnit to version 4.5.*

* Commit: `0c45280 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/0c45280008575a7678eda7092d669d33e114a84a>`_

[TASK] Update PhpUnit to 4.3 and vfsStream to 1.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `67f1617 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/67f1617c48dcafd18660784b809b1a63fd355080>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Undo requirements adjustment from CI job
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The release CI job adjusted requirements dutifully, but the result was
not as expected, because we humans missed some needed changes.

* Commit: `b7c3ee6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/b7c3ee69b4e17540f9e8a4076c1c6dd7aba99978>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/30/

* Commit: `67c6693 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/67c669301bc05e0982e311f8121b90a8b643ef6e>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/7/

* Commit: `2810ab5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/2810ab5b8ac22ccee238eb64c66c8d8d5a2edee9>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unit test in ``ExpressionSyntaxValidatorTest`` test case
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a typo in a unit test introduced with
Iaec2e11dfac0b35510c9fc0f6ac08e7d80d92268.

* Commit: `4d067cc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/4d067ccf008fbc2ca667b60730676b1fe04eba9c>`_

[FEATURE] Provide an Eel expression syntax validator
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a Flow Validator which allows to check
for a correct syntax. The expression given must
lack the wrapping ``${…}``.

The validation is done by simply handing the given
expression to the eel parser.

* Commit: `d9cfdab <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/d9cfdabbd0282b0fce91c7e7f740b2f96328b47a>`_

[TASK] Mark recent core migrations applied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit doesn't contain any changes, it simply marks recent
migrations applied so that::

  ./flow flow:core:migrate --status

won't show any open migrations for this package.

* Commit: `f899cbf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/f899cbfc0cf9befe4337b0338a9bf52ea9e981bb>`_

[FEATURE] Add SecurityHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a helper for security related information and checks.
This implementation is just a stub for now to help fix a bug.
The only available method is ``getAccount()`` more should be
added in the future.

Related: NEOS-1012

* Commit: `52655bb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/52655bbc62ed491b25e7311f841711b77f0d33a0>`_

[FEATURE] Additional Fizzle comparison operators (<, <=, >, >=)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implements lessThan, lessThanOrEqual, greaterThan, greaterThanOrEqual
comparison operators in Fizzle.

Example usage::

  {q(site).children('someNodesInHere').filter('[someProperty >= 10]')}

Related: FLOW-178

* Commit: `2202ff3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/2202ff3050039e3564585afbf34749dbab04bdc7>`_

[BUGFIX] Children operation does not work with collections
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Children operation applied to entities and giving the name of a
collection property don't retrieve the collection

* Fixes: `#52450 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52450>`_
* Commit: `c8dd025 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/c8dd025771842ee236c4bc751a8e4976348ebfe1>`_

[FEATURE] Add String.length(s) helper function
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: FLOW-141

* Commit: `c53f30f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/c53f30ff6ecadca34cdaafad2df4c9f456e7c723>`_

[TASK] Support for non-wrapped value in FlowQuery add() operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implements support to add values to a FlowQuery result without wrapping::

	q(node).add(someOtherNode)

Traversable arguments are still supported::

	q(node).add(q(someOtherNode))

Resolves: FLOW-142

* Commit: `a4a14be <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/a4a14be2c761bd770c375be6e634d408148988d1>`_

[BUGFIX] children() operation with an empty context should never fail
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes sure that the children operation always returns
an empty result if an empty context was given. This is needed because
the TYPO3CR children operation might be chained and the later operation
will be resolved to the object version.

Fixes: NEOS-523

* Commit: `066c045 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/066c045d89d4458323fd3df5ca2365130f8509b5>`_

[TASK] Make cached Eel expression avoid duplicate declarations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After the introduction of the EntityPrivilegeExpressionEvaluator with
the ACL changes the functional ActionControllerTest failed with::

  Cannot redeclare expression_c4cc6f98eb99414122ca432a08debb4c()

By wrapping the cached Eel expression code in function_exists() checks
this error is avoided.

* Commit: `fa59904 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/fa59904027a9d5fce88a19078141faead9aae908>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/33/

* Commit: `81de15d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/81de15d741c62e3db62c6b3e652054229aba7146>`_

[TASK] Add new files to default .gitignore file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The default .gitignore file in Flow needs to contain the (new) rST
files that replace Readme.txt and Upgrading.txt.

* Commit: `fe573f3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fe573f3f2d1df2f1a6d2a01248b2ab4d33d34ba4>`_

[TASK] Undo requirements adjustment from CI job
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The release CI job adjusted requirements dutifully, but the result was
not as expected, because we humans missed some needed changes.

* Commit: `0de3d5c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0de3d5c8b38d1b35b4eb4904166a7b37ab53701c>`_

[TASK] Remove unintentional typo3/party requirement
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `09b2c15 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/09b2c1562bfa82a787a2283ede5887b9c6033c7c>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/30/

* Commit: `e8f5f7f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e8f5f7f61b2d9ed5664fd2263c5d6aa1b03673e0>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Flow 3.0.0-beta1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/30/

* Commit: `4f666c8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4f666c83a0555c406ce1e0ed38abfbebf7d81c8f>`_

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/30/

* Commit: `8009179 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/80091792889cdd1835f6fd59d7aa20cae5e7302f>`_

[BUGFIX] Make proxy compilation possible without DB connection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A hotfix to make proxy compilation work when no DB connection is
possible. This used to work, but now a connection to the DB is needed
to compile Doctrine proxies.

This is probably a side effect of the Doctrine update.

Related: FLOW-219

* Commit: `61dfcec <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/61dfcec4591238e7a6ef8ce9e0e0a617b2b95fc5>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix tests that failed when TYPO3.Party is not installed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes some unit and functional tests that failed if
the ``TYPO3.Party`` package was not active.

Background:

With Flow 3.0 the Party package is no longer part of the base
distribution.
The ``AbstractParty`` type hint in ``Account::setParty()`` leads
to invalid proxy classes because the doctrine proxy builder will
throw away the type hint if it can't be resolved.
Furthermore this adjusts the unit tests for the ``Account`` class
so that the mocks don't depend on the non-existing ``AbstractParty``.

Related: FLOW-5

* Commit: `b2b7427 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b2b7427fb456de2ba8c21feed57b683db0a8f11a>`_

[TASK] Set FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH to 3.0 in Bootstrap
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1128700 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/11287001eff9144b264d7de816dfe3f45406a408>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/7/

* Commit: `01c6e68 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/01c6e6896e2d22af3909aba2d97f67f76a8dd85a>`_

[TASK] Update ``Readme`` and ``Upgrading`` instructions for 3.0 release
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3d8ff1d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3d8ff1d828d0d8bedb25f3bcad632eeadc04b190>`_

[TASK] Add missing changelogs (for 2.x)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `a696514 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a6965140d7364a6d793cf1fda6559fd7ceebcca1>`_

[TASK] Mark recent core migrations applied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit doesn't contain any changes, it simply marks recent
migrations applied so that::

  ./flow flow:core:migrate --status

won't show any open migrations for this package.

* Commit: `b098646 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b0986467c23bd02c7f7a874fe880dbd9134e21a4>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix error and standard view templates
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes several minor issues in regards of rendering of the default
``Error`` and `StandardView`` templates:

* Inline "StandardView_FloatingWindow.png" background image (it wasn't loaded
  otherwise when not in web root because of missing base tag)
* Remove references to "StandardView_Package.png" that doesn't exist
* Commit: `febbfcd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/febbfcd2d14be4aedb9639185b684f3cb006c5ee>`_

[TASK] Adjust one unit test to PHP 7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the unit tests fails under PHP 7, because the signature of
DateTime::createFromFormat() has changed.

This test adjusts that while keeping BC.

* Commit: `7ca5620 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7ca562036e38e91e747e93922932ee1ea9416efd>`_

[BUGFIX] Rename redirectToReferringRequest() to forwardToReferringRequest() in ActionController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``ActionRequest::redirectToReferringRequest()`` actually triggers a
forward not a redirect.
This change deprecates the ``redirectToReferringRequest()`` method in
favor of a new method ``redirectToReferringRequest()`` which works
exactly like the previous method.

The deprecated method might be re-implemented to issue a "real" HTTP
redirect at some point, so you should not use it for forwards.

Fixes: FLOW-164

* Commit: `ca02b07 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ca02b071ee176fb6aacc99a0b76fe88d3ee66ee6>`_

[BUGFIX] Enable Functional Tests for PSR-4 packages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Packages with PSR-4 autoloading will not be able to work with
functional tests because two problems arise. First the
package namespace is prepended twice and second the path
contains an unnecessary backslash.

To avoid wrong amounts of backslashes we now use the path merging
utility to merge namespace parts instead of doing simple string
concatenation. Additionally a check is added for packages with
PSR-4 autoloading enabled.

Releaes: master, 1.2

* Commit: `b274b8b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b274b8bee6d5f521ef0fb3e2799877cba97de7a7>`_

[FEATURE] Reconnect the EntityManager automatically
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the persistence backend closes the connection in the background.
E.g. if the MySQL server is configured with a low wait_timeout setting
of 10-30 seconds.
The ``PersistenceManager`` now catches the exception, establishes a new
connection automatically and tries to send all entity manager changes
to the backend again.
This is really important for long running commands or tasks.

Without this central improvement in the persistence manager it's really hard
to build stable daemon workers based on Flow commands.

Resolves: FLOW-207

* Commit: `babbae5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/babbae574625851f24ad34e6f39252074c8b52f4>`_

[TASK] Improve error message in convertObjectToIdentityArray
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change gives some hint about the object in question when trying
to convert it into an identity array but failing because it is unknown
to the persistence manager.

* Commit: `39fb589 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/39fb589e73cf59f22df218ea9483935935430e60>`_

[BUGFIX] Schema validation: Accept interfaces for format "class-name"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts the ``SchemaValidator`` to accept strings referring
interfaces even if format "class-name" is required.

Background:

Currently if a string is expected to have the format "class-name", like::

 { type: string, format: class-name }

in a schema validation, only actual class names are accepted. To match
interfaces the "interface-name" format can be used.

In Flow we often use interface names in Objects.yaml in order to keep
things decoupled and flexible.
Because it's not possible to specify multiple supported formats, this
relaxes this restriction.

* Commit: `5033eac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5033eac3ed4a9982a0d91bb04f3ab5206ac0db58>`_

[FEATURE] Human friendly error message in cache:flushone
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a human friendly error message for the
cache:flushone command, if the user entered a non-existing cache
identifier.

Instead of showing an uncaught exception, the user will now be provided
with a hint::

	The cache "TYPO3.TypoScript.Content" does not exist.
	Did you mean "TYPO3_TypoScript_Content"?

* Commit: `ac8dd12 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ac8dd122686d700834273ccb6b4292f71fcc86fc>`_

[TASK] Tweak "skip detection" in two schema migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Uses skipIf() instead of a plain if with an empty return.

* Commit: `31c594e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/31c594e244f3b93b2333f366a6e242926985bf77>`_

[BUGFIX] ObjectArray should use TypeHandling::getTypeForValue
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ObjectArray used get_class() to get the type of given $value. This
change changes that to using TypeHandling::getTypeForValue.

This fixes problems where for example class names of doctrine
proxies are used instead of the entity class name.

Resolves: FLOW-206

* Commit: `3e302d2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3e302d2428d3c2c3caa5aafd4ae1a9c21c5e7f5c>`_

[BUGFIX] Support numeric identifiers in dynamic route parts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the dynamic route part handler provided by Flow (namely
``DynamicRoutePart`` and ``IdentityRoutePart``) only support objects
with string identifiers.

With this change also numeric identifiers are supported, for example
for entities with a numeric auto_increment identifier.

* Fixes: `#48887 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48887>`_
* Fixes: `#58517 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58517>`_

* Commit: `4e698ac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4e698ac3d86195f87863a2d17759871b4b9990f2>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust our Doctrine\\Service to DBAL 2.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The internals of ForeignKeyConstraint changed between DBAL 2.3 and 2.4,
so this adjusts our tweaking of internal state to fit.

Related: FLOW-198

* Commit: `92a068d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/92a068db7a6bcf5a03ec8928f9a4b73b53aca5b8>`_

[FEATURE] HHVM compatibility
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit introduces HHVM compatibility by working around some
behavioural differences between vanilla PHP and HHVM.

Fixes: FLOW-194

* Commit: `9ffa7f9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9ffa7f9095074479121db65f8f7074413ceb7d17>`_

[!!!][TASK] Decoupling of TYPO3.Party package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes the use of the ``TYPO3.Party`` package optional, hence fully
replaceable. The Account does not have a tight coupling to the
``AbstractParty`` Aggregate Root anymore, so complete customized
solutions are usable now.

This change deprecates the following methods:

* ``Account::getParty()``
* ``Account::setParty()``
* ``Security\\Context::getParty()``
* ``Security\\Context::getPartyByType()``

They still work if the party package is installed, but usage of their
methods should be replaced with custom service calls (see party package
for an example of a simple ``PartyService``).

This is a breaking change because it removes the dependency to the
``TYPO3.Party`` package. If a package makes use of that package (e.g. by
extending the ``AbstractParty`` model, an entry::

  "typo3/party": "~3.0"

in the "require" section of the ``composer.json`` file is to be added!
Besides this change adjusts the ``getParty()`` and ``setParty()``
methods of ``Account`` and rearranges the database structure; so in
cases where these changes might influence userland code, adjustments
might be necessary.

Fixes: FLOW-5

* Commit: `958c887 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/958c8876e26f86510241913a15cb9a317e860a6e>`_

[FEATURE] Account::isActive()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a convenience method to Account which allows for checking
if the account is currently active.

Also marks the Account class and its method as API.

Related: NEOS-962

* Commit: `17fc7ec <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/17fc7eccd06c37cc864875b693658f8ccd8682b6>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix broken unit test due to withoutAuthorizationChecks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The call to ``withoutAuthorizationChecks`` cannot be easily mocked,
therefor the test prevents mocking of that method and mocks only
the necessary methods.

* Commit: `57af938 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/57af9384d10a54e7b6c4d2bb75411ac940486417>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove duplicate use statement
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes a duplicate use statement for the
UnitTestCase in the AuthenticationProviderManagerTest.

Resolves: FLOW-201

* Commit: `2cd4019 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2cd40192ede6f3383b5554c772d533c55dbe7d25>`_

[FEATURE] ArrayMerge supports merging simple types and arrays
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ArrayMergeRecursiveCallback is a new method that accepts a closure
to map any non array type to an array in a custom way. This is to
allow merging in a case where either side is an array and the other not.

Related: NEOS-1004

* Commit: `c0fa4a0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c0fa4a0c9a31f66db7acecef6f29895a69969669>`_

[FEATURE] Make introduced properties known to persistence
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Properties being introduces via AOP are now correctly
picked up by Doctrine persistence. To achieve this,
the introduced property is made known to the Reflection
Class Schema and class properties as if it was a "real"
property of the particular class.

Resolves: FLOW-191

* Commit: `21c5e4d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/21c5e4d23c1c612f6441cbc118fb791d41a527ad>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Generate Value Object hash from property values
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes the Value Objects' hash generation algorithm to
use the actual properties of the Value Object, not only the
constructor arguments which lead to duplicate hashes in cases
where arguments were empty.

Furthermore the initial approach disregarded everything that
can be done within the constructor (such as trimming, calculations,
etc.).

This patch delays the generation of the value hash to just after
instantiation, where the Value Object is completely initialized.
The final object properties names and values are then hashed.

Additionally, the handling of DateTime objects has been improved.
The generated ValueHash now also includes information about the
timezone.

This *might* be breaking in the unlikely case where the initial
hash calculation leads to the same hash as the new calculation,
for different VOs. Besides, it might lead to duplicate VOs in the
database because the "same" VO can become a new hash due to the
changed hashing algorithm.

* Fixes: `#51236 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/51236>`_
* Fixes: `#37357 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37357>`_

* Commit: `2d6a0df <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2d6a0dfdadd82877c210abead884cec55805ce16>`_

[TASK] Unclutter Storage API and keep upload internal
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the ``importUploadedResource()`` method from ``Collection``
and ``WriteableStorage`` to clean up the interface.
Uploaded files are now preprocessed in the ``ResourceManager`` and then handled
via the ``importResource()`` method. Additionally the ``$filename`` argument
is removed from ``Collection::importResourceFromContent()`` and
``Storage::importResourceFromContent()`` as it can be handled in the
``ResourceManager``.

Also includes fixes for environments with activated ``open_basedir`` directive.

* Commit: `364bea1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/364bea19119579b5ba08aaa6631b44abebd1c0b1>`_

[BUGFIX] Interface object configuration has no effect
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an issue with the object configuration for interfaces which
resulted in possibly defined configuration objects in Objects.yaml to
be ignored.

Even though Flow internally uses objects in dependency injection
referenced through the interface name (for example
"PackageManagerInterface"), the object configuration for such objects
did not actually work. The error only remained undiscovered because
the object configuration of the respective implementation classes had
meaningful options set.

With this change applied, it is now possible to safely inject an
"interface object".

Resolves: FLOW-187

* Commit: `b783e6a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b783e6a2019f16f967bf9f3b0f45f4f18c128761>`_

[TASK] Fix unit tests failing on PHP 5.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some unit tests failed under PHP 5.6 because an argument to be passed by
reference was by value.
The affected tests now use ``_callRef`` in the ``AccessibleMock``.

This should solve those issues on HHVM as well.

Related: FLOW-194

* Commit: `f9cfdde <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f9cfdde8bd0f8c452fa20bf68c16dc4fb99060f0>`_

[BUGFIX] PersistentObjectConverter works with "immutable" properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The PersistentObjectConverter sets convertedChildProperties on the
object after it was created (either newly constructed or
hydrated from persistance). Creating a new object will filter
constructor arguments from the convertedChildProperties but
if the object already existed that does not happen.
This poses a problem for objects that accept arguments in the
constructor that are not settable afterwards. So those properties are
considered "immutable".
In cases where you cannot be sure if an object already exists and you
give the identity and all properties of an object with "immutable"
properties the property mapping will fail if the object already existed
as the converter tries to set the "immutable" properties as well.

With this change we check for this kind of properties and compare the
given value with the already set value. In case they are identical
we ignore the given value and proceed with the property mapping. In
case they differ there is an inconsistency in your data that we cannot
handle and so throw an exception.
This is not breaking as before in all cases an exception would be thrown.

Fixes: NEOS-937

* Commit: `a31b73e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a31b73e6e9de06606c6ab28d1a24958546fbfbbb>`_

[!!!][TASK] Do not use LoggerFactory in a static context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

First step to build a more configurable system for factory
injection to be used to replace the logger with monolog.

This is breaking in case you rely on the create method of
the LoggerFactory being static.

* Commit: `c4a9350 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c4a935054d840a49394559a128296b2812dbfca2>`_

[TASK] Don't skip core migrations for packages that are not the root of a git repository
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to If66a2dff21b239963728963f15437599a8442f72 that
reverts the new behavior of skipping packages that are not the root of
a git repository.

Related: FLOW-179

* Commit: `b3d8d37 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b3d8d37efc527ecdbd43931e01eb873a03d9a8cc>`_

[!!!][TASK] Fix order of DB migrations related to role handling
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The migrations for MySQL and PostgreSQL related to the security policy
restructuring change https://review.typo3.org/28869 had version numbers
putting them into March and May 2014 respectively. The change was merged
only in November, though. Under certain circumstances this could lead to
errors caused by the ordering of DB migrations: if a migration created
after March (or May) referenced the tables dropped with those migrations,
it would fail, because they would be gone already "since March". So the
two migrations have been renamed.

* Commit: `d1641d4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d1641d40b73f5cc716693e0fd1ae7e79abbb07d2>`_

[!!!][TASK] Add charset and collation to all MySQL migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change set adds charset and collation to create table statements
in the existing migrations. This make sure the tables are set up
correctly independent of the database default configuration.

Also migrations generated contain this information since a while,
leading to problems on migration if the database is not using the same
charset and collation.

This is breaking if you have existing tables that do not use the utf8
charset and utf8_unicode_ci collation. To solve this you need to convert
the existing tables. This can be done using the command::

  ./flow database:setcharset

Related: NEOS-800

* Commit: `c39cb1b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c39cb1bd6599453ae17f1066777ca55fe012cd84>`_

[BUGFIX] Account tagging causes Access Denied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an issue with the account session tagging feature which has
been merged minutes ago. Content security blocked the retrieval of the
Account object from the content repository. Therefore, the Account
methods must be called with temporarily disabled authorisation checks
at this stage.

See also change I2ab10b535cea0c80aaff287e65511ea581681379

* Commit: `1471e7e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1471e7e413f4e560bf221df1112fcaf1a3228aa5>`_

[FEATURE] Automatically remove sessions of deleted account
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a mechanism which automatically destroys all sessions
started by a particular account when that account is going to be
removed.

It also introduces a new method "destroySessionsByTag()" to the
Session Manager.

Resolves: FLOW-186

* Commit: `207fe88 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/207fe880c74f4f969e5376757ac445ecd4020f10>`_

[FEATURE] Tag sessions with current account
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds an account tag to all sessions started through
authentication. Through this tag it is possible to find all sessions
of a particular user (ie. account) through the session manager.

Example::

  $sessions = $sessionManager->getSessionsByTag('TYPO3-Flow-Security-Account-' . $account->getAccountIdentifier());

Resolves: FLOW-184

* Commit: `20321e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/20321e567684dd488a8670ffba35139d03da5014>`_

[FEATURE] Add command to set charset/collation on MySQL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a new command to set the character set and collation used in
MySQL::

  ./flow database:setcharset

It will convert the database configured in the settings and all tables
inside to use a default character set of utf8 and a default collation
of utf8_unicode_ci. If needed, those defaults can be overridden.

It will also convert all character type columns to that combination of
charset and collation.

Related: NEOS-800

* Commit: `81bef9d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/81bef9d9cc115b6740906d798d0f2a82ddd157fe>`_

[FEATURE] Use Doctrine ORM 2.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change updates the requested Doctrine ORM version from 2.3 to 2.4.

The FlowAnnotationDriver is adjusted to match the features found in the
AnnotationDriver of Doctrine ORM 2.4 and is cleaned by importing classes.

One notable addition is the support for the EntityListeners annotation.

Resolves: FLOW-198

* Commit: `4de12eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4de12ebdc1ca9b8059e3c3eab2391ac2b38d592c>`_

[TASK] Removed deprecated use of Inject for settings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the use of the Inject annotation for settings and instead
uses the new InjectConfiguration annotation instead.

Related: FLOW-148

* Commit: `35d9188 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/35d9188a68317448f79d510f2de6b6839e5f1eaf>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Make ignoreTags configuration more flexible
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes the ``TYPO3.Flow.reflection.ignoreTags`` setting a dictionary
to allow for adding and changing tag ignore behavior from 3rd party packages.

The previous syntax::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      reflection:
        ignoredTags: ['tag1', 'tag2']

is now deprecated in favor of::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      reflection:
        ignoredTags:
          'tag1': TRUE
          'tag2': TRUE

The old syntax is still evaluated so this change is mostly backwards compatible.
However it changes the behavior so that configuration is now *merged* rather than
*replaced*. So this is a breaking change if a package relied on this behavior. To
remove a tag from the list of ignored tags, it has to be set to ``FALSE``
explicitly now::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      reflection:
        ignoredTags:
          'someTag': FALSE

Resolves: FLOW-199

* Commit: `77360fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/77360fd93052d1ffb3fcfba1ef045c6fd61ffb12>`_

[FEATURE] Improve handling of core migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Features of this change:

* "version" flag to allow execution/fetching status of single migrations
* "verbose" flag to reduce noise if not needed
* even migrations with no changes are recorded (as empty commits)
* custom description for migrations (migration class doc comment)
* skips "TYPO3.*" packages by default (overridden when specifying the
  --package-key argument)
* Refactor scripts to ease maintenance

Resolves: FLOW-179

* Commit: `f4f51ed <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f4f51ed47238aaf6beab5d6805a921e1f5dbb306>`_

[!!!][TASK] Exclude Non-Flow packages from object management by default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change all packages, that are not of one of the "typo3-flow-*"
composer types, are excluded from object management by default.

Previously the had to be excluded explicitly with the
``TYPO3.Flow.object.includeClasses`` setting.

To activate object management for Non-Flow packages, the newly introduced
setting ``TYPO3.Flow.object.includeClasses`` can be used. It works in
the same way as ``excludeClasses``, apart from not allowing wildcards for
the package.

This is a breaking change in case proxy building for non-flow packages
was expected. In these cases packages have to be included explicitly now::

 TYPO3:
   Flow:
     object:
       includeClasses:
         'non.flow.package' : ['.*']

To exclude classes from Flow packages a non-matching or empty expression
can be specified::

 TYPO3:
   Flow:
     object:
       includeClasses:
         'Some.Flow.Package' : []

The ``excludeClasses`` setting is deprecated but still evaluated.

Resolves: FLOW-103

* Commit: `2d58305 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2d5830538c67abb39c316081abe4bc2f21e77c6d>`_

[FEATURE] The Query Object Model supports distinct queries
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changeset introduces the methods getDistinct and setDistinct on
the Query object to allow queries to explicitly return only distinct
result sets, which might be needed for join queries which happen
implicitly in subproperty queries, e.g.
property.subProperty.foo IN (1,2,3)

Doctrine automatically hydrates only distinct entities on result sets,
but that happens only after a limit clause on the query. This leads to
wrong query results with limit clauses, with less entities than
distinct existing entities in the database. A test is provided that shows
the behaviour.

Resolves: FLOW-21

* Commit: `197e914 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/197e914a6269d0251177df2830c01225f04ca8cf>`_

[TASK] Explain type attribute for InjectConfiguration annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fills a small gap in the documentation for the new configuration
injection mechanism.

Related: FLOW-148

* Commit: `86f9b49 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/86f9b4996ce954dfcf6b2bd26e210754238b049f>`_

[FEATURE] Support for variables in routing default values
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently placeholders are only supported in ``name`` and
``uriPattern``.

This adds support for ``default`` values allowing for better reusability
of similar routes. For example a main ``Routes.yaml`` with::

  -
    name: 'CRUD - product'
    uriPattern: '<CRUDSubroutes>'
    subRoutes:
      'CRUDSubroutes':
        package: 'Acme.Package'
        suffix:  'Crud'
        variables:
          'resourceName': 'product'

And the corresponding sub routes ``Routes.Crud.yaml`` with::

  -
    name: '<resourceName> - index'
    uriPattern: '<resourceName>s'
    defaults:
      '@controller': '<resourceName>'
      '@action': 'index'
    httpMethods: ['GET']

  -
    name: '<resourceName> - create'
    uriPattern: '<resourceName>s'
    defaults:
      '@controller': '<resourceName>'
      '@action': 'create'
    httpMethods: ['POST']

  -
    name: '<resourceName> - show'
    uriPattern: '<resourceName>s/{<resourceName>}'
    defaults:
      '@controller': '<resourceName>'
      '@action': 'show'
    httpMethods: ['GET']

Resolves: FLOW-76

* Commit: `5781e05 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5781e053c2f12cee6d7ab89b1717bf4c8cef9684>`_

[BUGFIX] Support persisting cloned related entities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cloning entities which are fetched as Doctrine proxy leads to an fatal
error in PersistenceManager. This patch fixes that behaviour and provides
a functional test for the use case.

* Commit: `552d6eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/552d6eb96efaac0a01b3e26cd295f83caf8afabf>`_

[FEATURE] JsonView accepts encoding options
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

json_encode supports multiple bitmask options.
see: http://www.php.net/manual/en/json.constants.php

These options are supported with this commit
using the supported options of AbstractView

Usage Example:
$this->view->setOption('jsonEncodingOptions', JSON_FORCE_OBJECT | JSON_NUMERIC_CHECK);

Resolves: FLOW-157

* Commit: `8dbeab5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8dbeab5ef6e3a711f29e3d76e866d57cc21daae1>`_

[FEATURE] Embedded Development Web Server
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By using ./flow server:run, a quick-and-dirty development server
is started; so no web server configuration is needed anymore.

Resolves: FLOW-169

* Commit: `a06f8ea <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a06f8eae8b305c2305885f9c2f2d26c481a977bd>`_

[FEATURE] Allow custom handling of propertyMapping errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously if an entity wasn't found during property mapping an
exception was thrown before the action was invoked making it
difficult to change the default behavior of showing a 404 error.

This change adjusts the ``PersistentObjectConverter`` to return
a ``TargetNotFoundError`` in that case instead of throwing an
exception. It also extends the ``\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Error\\Result``
class by a method ``getFlattenedErrorsOfType()`` that allows to
retrieve all errors implementing a given class or interface.

The default ``errorAction`` of the ``ActionController`` now
checks the validation result for TargetNotFoundErrors and throws
an exception if that's the case. But this behavior can now be
changed by overriding ``handleTargetNotFoundError()``::

  protected function handleTargetNotFoundError() {
    try {
      parent::handleTargetNotFoundError();
    } catch (TargetNotFoundException $exception) {
      // custom behavior (e.g. redirect to some action)
    }
  }

Resolves: FLOW-197

* Commit: `c834eae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c834eaed1dff0983c7ebc565c4e50772e7e70c6a>`_

[FEATURE] ObjectConfiguration gets name from annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently, an object configuration's property's class must
explicitly configured with its name, even if the name is
implied by the annotation of the intended property.

This change falls back to that annotated class name, if
the name is not explicitly mentioned. For example, this
configuration now will work::

 'Acme\\Acme\\SomeClass':
   properties:
     'someProperty':
       object:
          # the type of 'someProperty' will be inferred from the var annotation now
          # previously it had to be specified via `name`
         arguments:
           1:
             value: 'SomeConstructorArgument'

…as long as the mentioned property ``someProperty`` has a
proper ``@var`` annotation revealing the class name.

* Resolves: `#44157 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/44157>`_
* Commit: `f0bde21 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f0bde21d8d35b4751e22ad4eb1a087069f9c922b>`_

[BUGFIX] Reset ``SecurityContextHash`` on logout
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts ``AuthenticationProviderManager::logout()`` to reset the
``ContextHash`` of the ``Security\\Context`` whenever an account is
logged out in order to prevent invalid caching entries.

Related: NEOS-433

* Commit: `20c5da3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/20c5da33f93ce9eddab33e3565107f5272d8fd2e>`_

[TASK] Respect "SecurityContextHash" in doctrine caches
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``Doctrine\\CacheAdapter`` to include the current
``SecurityContextHash`` whenever writing cache entries in order to
prevent protected entities to be available to unauthorized users.

Related: NEOS-433

* Commit: `3f085a5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3f085a54b743036d8be7efa8f4ff859c2d7ed210>`_

[BUGFIX] Start session when fetching a CSRF token
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a ``@Flow\\Session(autoStart=true)`` annotation to the
method ``Security\\Context::getCsrfProtectionToken()``.

Background:

Currently ``CSRF`` tokens are bound to a session. Thus fetching a token
without starting a session makes no sense because the token will be
invalid on the next request.

In the long run we might be able to create "stateless" CSRF tokens that
don't require a session.

Related: FLOW-130

Depends: I896f6a722445deede1f0a656ea73db04f0d2e978

* Commit: `408919f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/408919f486ffd78b0f8e38dd00e8e3ddd5601d0d>`_

[BUGFIX] Enforce CSRF token for sub requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change dispatching of requests is intercepted *recursively*
so that a valid CSRF token is enforced for sub requests, too.
Previously the token was only enforced on the main ActionRequest.

Background:

Previously the CSRF token was enforced via an AOP aspect. But one aspect
can only be executed once at a time. So calls of
``Dispatcher::dispatch()`` that are invoked during the execution of the
same method (which is the case for plugin or widget sub requests)
weren't intercepted by the aspect.

This change removes the aspect in favor of a hard coded check in the
Dispatcher class.

Related: FLOW-130

* Commit: `2497220 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2497220cf19b8c2c90fada04a6b3cdcb444da8a9>`_

[FEATURE] Add HTTP-version and start-line support to Http\\Message
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds support for the HTTP-version to HTTP Messages like
Request and Response; i.e. it is stored and accessible.

As a consequence, convenient getter methods for the so-called
"Start-Line" (RFC 2616, section 4 HTTP Message) is added,
being either the "Request-Line" or the "Status-Line" depending
on the Message implementation (being a Request or a Response).
See RFC 2616, sections 5.1 and 6.1 accordingly.

Besides, it makes Http\\Message an abstract class because
an HTTP message *must* be a Request or a Response and cannot
be a Message itself.

* Commit: `485ab04 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/485ab04e311dce03b637bc70c08a2a16c8c0f632>`_

[TASK] Embedded Entities in ObjectArray are lazy loaded
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ObjectArray would fetch doctrine entities one by one at the time
the main entity was hydrated, now we create a lazy loading proxy
instead. This should have no negative effects, if all embedded
objects are used the same amount of queries will happen, but if none
of the embedded objects is needed, then they won't be fetched from
persistence at all.

* Commit: `b172f7e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b172f7e620236cb354b688e57649b6fc4460e689>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix typo in PHPDoc for method getParameters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes a typo in the PHPDoc for the method
getParameters in file TYPO3\\Flow\\Reflection\\MethodReflection

* Commit: `c777853 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c7778536b6c92d3daed6bc4a48c59cc9fe8de0ec>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix typo in PHPDoc for method createSchema
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes a typo in the PHPDoc for the method
createSchema in file TYPO3\\Flow\\Persistence\\Doctrine\\Service

* Commit: `d3cdb41 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d3cdb41a9413aa7e72718d6f46f1d578fb6d81ab>`_

[TASK] Suggest ext-curl in composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The curl PHP extension is used in the HTTP client CurlEngine and thus
this change marks it as suggested in the composer manifest.

* Commit: `f947e9d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f947e9dc7e6e456377e0373c9f5823615afae23f>`_

[TASK] Remove use of deprecated getResourcePointer
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ArrayConverter still referenced the deprecated method
getResourcePointer() in the code used to export file data contained
in Resource objects.

* Commit: `ade3fa0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ade3fa0339eee8aad9c35a1ead26a096b6df09ff>`_

[!!!][TASK] Remove obsolete "security.enable" Setting
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes the `TYPO3.Flow.security.enable` and all mentions
and usages of it.

Background:

This setting was initially intended for performance reasons (For
applications without security features) and in order to disable
security for (functional) tests.
For the latter we use a different approach since a while and the
performance hit of security features is also neglect-able since
Flow pre-compiles classes (at least if there is no complex policy
configured).
Besides the flag was never evaluated consistently.

Resolves: FLOW-181
Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `1e0e651 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1e0e65119eaaa4ef903599822954db104137b6ea>`_

[BUGFIX] Properly support doctrine's indexBy attribute
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Doctrine allows an indexBy attribute at OneToMany and ManyToMany
relations. The current FlowAnnotationDriver removes this attribute.
This patch passes it forward again.

Functional tests are included.

* Related: `#44740 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/44740>`_
* Commit: `4d0f1da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4d0f1daa462d38f3b5f21fc2879b81b6ac87a603>`_

[TASK] Use UTF-8 safe parse_url in Flow
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds parse_url() to the Unicode\\Functions class and makes use of it
throughout Flow.

See https://bugs.php.net/52923 for some background.

* Commit: `f63915c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f63915c998916896a12efe711998f382fd313b73>`_

[TASK] Make i18n locale fallback rule handling a bit more robust
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the locale fallback rule for the i18n framework is given without order an
exception is thrown. A missing strict flag on the fallback rule is set to the
default (FALSE) as implied by the documentation.

* Commit: `2fffc93 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2fffc93f8fc2a9355c6ed4411902880efd27242d>`_

[TASK] Remove deprecated classes and methods
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes everything marked deprecated in 2.0 and before.
Actually we should also remove everything that was deprecated
from 2.1 but as we were so lenient with the 2.0 things, I left
that alone for now.

* Commit: `ae22ca6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ae22ca6cb2dc4609ae6c0aed64cbddb4a0cdd301>`_

[BUGFIX] Constraint with "IN" and empty collection should work
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Entity constraints using "IN" where the argument resulted in an
empty array would generate a query that contained an empty ``IN()``
operation. This breaks at least in MySQL. The only way to test for
NULL is a IS NULL constraint. This change takes care of that.
The changed test exposed the issue.

* Commit: `7869041 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/78690419b1c52d64ceea41343b92ce46c54f9cbe>`_

[TASK] Ignore unknown Roles in Account->hasRole()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As a followup to the change I10968698163d70b9ea387b098eb3bb46ed09c98f
this addresses the concern about hasRole() being inconsistent now.

* Commit: `02ce8f8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/02ce8f84f1f36fb75c4a8290388b67733b8f33d6>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] SessionManagerInterface and SessionInterface are incomplete
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds functions which have been around for some time now
in Session and SessionManager to their respective interfaces.

TransientSession now also implements these previously missing methods.

This patch is breaking in the unlikely case that you implemented your
own Session or SessionManager implementation and forgot to implement the
methods mentioned in the classes but not yet mentioned in the interfaces.

* Commit: `0c8ed7d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0c8ed7daed836e80b36b951d61fbd24295f7f24c>`_

[TASK] Ignore invalid roles in Account->getRoles()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a safeguard which ignores role identifiers which are
possibly still stored with an account, but refer to roles which do not
exist anymore, or at the moment. Previously Account->getRoles() would
throw an exception when it stumbled over a non existing role.

* Commit: `63d04f7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/63d04f762613e55cabbd707a329a0d50415dd480>`_

[TASK] Fix warnings during reStructuredText rendering
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This tweaks rst files to get rid of some warnings that are emitted
during documentation rendering.

* Commit: `df552f7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/df552f71642b63862400e7c3b8acdd7ffeb93f15>`_

[TASK] Remove leftover table
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes the typo3_flow_resource_publishing_abstractpublishingconfiguration
table that should not be present.

Resolves: FLOW-185

* Commit: `eb93c7b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/eb93c7b584d537419431131bab7535fdb416335a>`_

[TASK] Improve CSRF log entries
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change tweaks the log/exception messages of the
``CsrfProtection`` RequestPattern.

It also adjusts the behavior to log if

* CSRF enforcement was skipped due to a "skipcsrfprotection" annotation
* CSRF token was successfully verified

Related: FLOW-130

* Commit: `849f11e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/849f11e9271b44d90264f5e1b1a3d808a6630e75>`_

[TASK] Remove inaccessible code from ArrayConverter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Remove code that is currently inaccessible, because the constant
STRING_FORMAT_SERIALIZED is not defined in the class.

Unserializing from untrusted sources should not be done anyway
so we remove this possibility completely instead of adding the constant.

A use case which would require an unserialize for array conversion is complex
enough to be handled in a dedicated type converter class which exactly fits the use case
instead of providing a potentially insecure shortcut for that (unserialize) in the framework.

* Commit: `d52449e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d52449e2e101f783849bec48489a6a93ccd0ce87>`_

[TASK] Adjust Policy schema to new format
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Restructure policy component to new
Policy.yaml format" change (I84e188e89a05ec0dd1f9ee96fe312dac81806759)
adjusting the schema according to the new syntax.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `112cabc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/112cabc143c88ee57f183a5fbb2ca53d730aa6fd>`_

[TASK] Introduce privilege subjects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a privilege subject interface
and a method implementation to pass method invocations
as subject to the method privilege implementation.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `8be8c94 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8be8c94cfa2d8269a073b63a57e3419c787a5218>`_

[TASK] Tweak error handling in doctrine:migrationversion
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of an uncaught exception, two expected error states are now
handled in a more friendly way.

* Commit: `0079049 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0079049a017df7a9ef74586fdf7137470a487d4e>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `bbc1a31 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/bbc1a31b733c4853528e54223efe379e3f4aa77c>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to new Resource Management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.persistence.schema.yaml`` according to the
"Multi-Storage / Multi-Target Resource Management" feature introduced
with Ia2b47b4070a2dfabf4833bf1f0f3967ba3b032a7.

Besides this removes an obsolete "detectPackageResourceChanges" setting.

Fixes: FLOW-129

* Commit: `9f2e420 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9f2e4209cca9380973d4860ab220aa85d8d75b53>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to "Add Configuration for Doctrine Filters"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.persistence.schema.yaml`` according to the
"Add Configuration for Doctrine Filters" change introduced with
If8582f8d138a7e46b8b77fc3c4b83b78bfc93bba.

* Commit: `913cbcb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/913cbcb4c4a539d12a8ea0625471a78f7ea6da5a>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Correct object modification exception trigger
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The PersistentObjectConverter throws an exception if there are
properties to be set on the object and modification was not allowed
in the PropertyMappingConfiguration.
The decision if there are properties to be set was done based on the
amount of entries in the ``$source`` array, but in fact only the
``$convertedChildProperties`` are set to the model, so the check
should check if there is anything in that array.

That means you can have any amount of arbitrary data in your data
source as long as it is not converted to an actual child property.
Which is determined by the ``getSourceChildPropertiesToBeConverted``
method of the converter.

This is breaking if you rely on the fact that the exception is thrown
if you have arbitrary data in $source even though that data would
never have been set to your model.

* Commit: `525a894 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/525a8942af2866966c8b86c6995734b7885e451c>`_

[BUGFIX] Package meta data do not contain package type.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When loading packages using the PackageManager class, the associated
MetaData instance is not initialized with the package type.

* Commit: `429cf11 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/429cf116ad0295ec467d879c94f412a0eb39f6e6>`_

[TASK] Use unicode-safe pathinfo function and use it where necessary
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``pathinfo()`` function is not unicode-friendly
if setlocale is not set. It's sufficient to set it
to any UTF-8 locale to correctly handle unicode strings.
This change temporarily sets locale to 'en_US.UTF-8'
and then restores original locale.
It's not necessary to use this function in cases,
where only file extension is determined, as it's
hard to imagine a unicode file extension.

Related: FLOW-101

* Commit: `9921f3c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9921f3c057872b8fb13fd176208b57ab31774c0b>`_

[BUGFIX] Respect correct property filling priority in ObjectConverter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The order preference to try to set a property
via constructor, via setter and via public property
is now respected correctly by the
``ObjectConverter::getTypeOfChildProperty()`` method.
That method used to check the setter annotation in the
first place, then the constructor annotation in the second
place, and failed when a property was only settable through
its public nature since that case was not backed at all.

The checking/setting priority now follows the one used by
``ObjectAccess``, so it is Constructor > Setter > Field.

Fixes: FLOW-33

* Commit: `8c4fdc4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8c4fdc4c22f30139f0f8daba82c886f9a24a9f7f>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Introduce InjectConfiguration Annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a new ``InjectConfiguration` annotation that can be used to
easily inject settings or other configuration types to classes.

Example::

    /**
     * @var string
     * @Flow\\InjectConfiguration("my.setting")
     */
     protected $mySetting;

    /**
     * @var string
     * @Flow\\InjectConfiguration(package="TYPO3.Flow", path="core.phpBinaryPathAndFilename")
     */
    protected $phpBinary;

    /**
     * @var array
     * @Flow\\InjectConfiguration(type="Views")
     */
    protected $viewsConfiguration;

This change is marked breaking because it deprecates setting injection
via the ``Inject`` annotation (introduced with
Id84d087307d348ecd3079fc6097df193ebecb08a).

It also reverts support for the ``InjectSettings`` annotation that has
been introduced with Iaec291e40ffd352de9810c4e72027c455bf8c566 (but was
never part of a release).

Related: FLOW-148

* Commit: `5383438 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5383438d735cb508fe55c8450501e54a22d47652>`_

[BUGFIX] AOP works with __clone call on parent objects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If, for example, you extend an entity which implements __clone
the AOP Framework breaks with an warning in development mode,
that it cannot access Flow_Aop_Proxy_targetMethodsAndGroupedAdvices.

Solution is to check  if the private
Flow_Aop_Proxy_targetMethodsAndGroupedAdvices property is
accessible and otherwise skipping the Advice call.

* Related: `#37571 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37571>`_
* Commit: `c6e671c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c6e671cf64c8c764021e3519e5dcc40d359dc001>`_

[BUGFIX] Log exceptions recursively in ``SystemLogger::logException()``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change "post mortem" information about the complete exception
chain is logged, and not only for the outer exception.

This also adds some cosmetic and non-functional cleanups in order to
increase readability and IDE support:

* Import FQN where applicable
* Remove unused import statements

Fixes: FLOW-159

* Commit: `38602eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/38602eb9d09ee6ad87a74352eadfaa17312d547c>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust CommandLine documentation to refactored console output
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the ``CommandLine`` section of the documentation to
changes introduced with Ia77c62b41fb598bdfb7b81c530494ba819a590d1.

* Related: `#49016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49016>`_
* Commit: `27c9de8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/27c9de835b899d27399af72f5d339952d5ec7060>`_

[TASK] Update documentation for the new resource management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: FLOW-114

* Commit: `2c940da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2c940da56be2b6379cdbafe8222ed63097a00f4f>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to "Add a generic lock class"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.utility.schema.yaml`` according to the
"Add a generic lock class" change introduced with
Ib5cacb4e8a0784814bd863ae19b591acd540e4ef

Besides this puts the lockStrategyClassName setting in quotes as
suggested in the original change.

* Commit: `f543c7b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f543c7bb2df6989c5db14d57d68defe203c1b7f0>`_

[BUGFIX] Disable security for CLI requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently it's not possible to invoke methods that are covered by a
policy via CLI because the security context is not yet initialized
leading to a ``The security Context cannot be initialized yet``
exception.

With this change all authorization checks are disabled for command
controllers.

Fixes: #FLOW-163

* Commit: `c4d33d8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c4d33d8220b8dbaaabc7eb78b318ae1a8f3e8831>`_

[TASK] Cosmetic cleanup in CLI and bootstrap classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a non-functional change that incorporates following
adjustments in order to increase readability and IDE support:

* Replace magic strings "Runtime" and "Compiletime" by constants
* Import FQN where applicable
* Remove redundant doc comments
* Inline @var annotations where applicable

* Commit: `294a2a6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/294a2a676f81f643860cda217e62f86340285c26>`_

[FEATURE] Automatically move generated migration to package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds some interaction to the ``doctrine:migrationgenerate``
command allowing to move generated doctrine migrations to the
specified package.

Example output::

  Do you want to move the migration to one of these Packages?
    [0 ] Don't Move
    [1 ] TYPO3.Fluid
    [2 ] TYPO3.Eel
    [3 ] TYPO3.Flow
    [4 ] TYPO3.Party
    ...

* Related: `#49016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49016>`_
* Commit: `122c134 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/122c134f2999c5a90ed98e5398cc30a7518e44a8>`_

[TASK] Cleanup PersistentObjectConverter and tweak InvalidSourceException
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is basically a cosmetic change to the ``PersistentObjectConverter``
and corresponding unit test which incorporates following non-functional
changes:

* Import FQN for better readability
* Adjust @throws, @param and @return annotations for better IDE support

Additionally this adjusts the exception message of the
``InvalidSourceException`` in ``fetchObjectFromPersistence()`` to
prevent fatal errors when the identity is of an invalid type and adds a
corresponding test.

* Commit: `9e008e9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9e008e9679e37bedc322e57174c167670d5f03f3>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix duplicate keys in Testing/Settings.yaml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1323168 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/13231689414be96ca5b8484c213dd3861d8bc44f>`_

[BUGFIX] Package keys with different case should not be allowed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Composer packages could change their Flow package key case, the package
manager needs to prevent registering the same package twice.

Fixes: FLOW-156

* Commit: `6fb8e4a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6fb8e4ae0b6faf47a781bd8d47c8b896929d82e2>`_

[BUGFIX] Properly resolve case of Subpackage Key in ActionRequest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``ActionRequest::getControllerSubpackageKey()`` failed to return the
correctly cased subpackage key.
This is not the case for the other ``getController*()`` getters and
can lead to issues (e.g. "Template could not be loaded" Fluid
exceptions on case-sensitive file systems.

This change adjusts the ``getControllerSubpackageKey()`` method to
``getControllerName()`` which already uses the correctly cased
controllerObjectName to extract the controller name.

Fixes: FLOW-126

* Commit: `d4f878e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d4f878e97e660b238b2192b37580091ce27c114d>`_

[BUGFIX] Documentation: Correct pagination widget example
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The example code for a fluid widgets uses a
not working syntax of the pagination widget.

Move the configuration for "itemsPerPage" into
the correct attribute.

Fixes: FLOW-100

* Commit: `3c271dc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3c271dccf3341b0601497a3c066773c4f03b8877>`_

[FEATURE] Filesize utility functions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds two new convenient functions to ``Utility\\Files`` that allow
for converting a number of bytes to a human-readable representation vice
versa.

Usage::

  \\TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Files::bytesToSizeString(1073741823);
  \\TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Files::sizeStringToBytes('1024M');

Related: NEOS-842

* Commit: `db800d7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/db800d7c837e9d901922a8ddd8bd0c0d2ce3551f>`_

[FEATURE] Allow to send custom request headers automatically
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Browser provides a method to set headers to be sent with every
request now::

  $browser->addAutomaticRequestHeader('Accept-Language', 'lv');

Removal of a previously added header is possible with::

  $browser->removeAutomaticRequestHeader('Accept-Language');

* Commit: `fe450cf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fe450cff96d344ffbed94d9995d60690791a2c92>`_

[BUGFIX] Get rid of TYPO3CR dependency in integration tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change extracts the trait inclusion in a package specific
behat helper class and not directly into the command controller.
By this, every package can provide the traits needed by its tests
based on this helper class.

Fixes: FLOW-134

* Commit: `97afd2d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/97afd2d6e094b91b6ae0b4f9179fbb94f6eb8d21>`_

[FEATURE] Add PackageKeys as namespaces to TemplateParser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change registers a Fluid ViewHelper namespace for every
active package.

This means, that you can call any package viewHelper without
declaring a namespace like this::

  <acme.somepackage:someViewHelper />

Depends: Ie4e40713ec7b2a31464ddd633458d757d55d52e7

Related: FLOW-151

* Commit: `e2064e8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e2064e8ada03ef184a23d10615a1249292a438b9>`_

[!!!][TASK] Introduce InjectSettings Annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change mainly cleans up injection code by moving reading of
injection annotations to the ConfigurationBuilder from the
ProxyClassBuilder, so that the ProxyClassBuilder again mostly works
based off the given configuration.

Additionally property injection was moved to a separate annotation
that now allows injection of whole package settings from a separate
package with the following syntax::

  @Flow\\InjectSettings(package="TYPO3.Party")

will inject all settings for the package ``TYPO3.Party``.

Just using the annotation like this::

  @Flow\\InjectSettings

will inject all settings for the package in which the class with the
annotation is in.

Giving a specific setting path is also possible, with or without
the package. So this::

  @Flow\\InjectSettings(package="TYPO3.Flow", path="i18n.defaultLocale")

Will inject the Setting TYPO3.Flow.i18n.defaultLocale regardless
in which class the annotation was used.

This change is marked breaking as injection of settings via
the ``Inject`` annotation is from now on deprecated and will be
removed in three versions.

Resolves: FLOW-148

* Commit: `c7cc9b6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c7cc9b6d8831600df574daed852df42061afdf9f>`_

[TASK] Tweak Quickstart tutorial
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the Quickstart to be in sync with recent Flow changes.

Related: FLOW-139

* Commit: `dbf7db5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/dbf7db549689a59cdeeef90a43574e9a136e752e>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw exception when trying to reflect a non-existing class
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously the ``ReflectionService`` ignored classes that couldn't be
loaded. It just logged an error and marked the respective class
"unconfigurable".
This leads to weird side effects that are hard to track down.

With this change an exception is thrown during compile time whenever
a class is being reflected that couldn't be loaded.

If a class or file should be skipped during reflection, the
``excludeClasses`` can be used::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      object:
        excludeClasses:
          'Some.PackageKey': ['Some\\\\Class\\\\Name']

Fixes: FLOW-128

* Commit: `4f40670 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4f406702cecd77b2ab940f96e33b2d77ffddd9e4>`_

[TASK] Explain "inconsistent naming" of classes and interfaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the wonderful explanation the reasons for our naming of
classes and interfaces that Jacob Floyd sent to the mailing list to the
CGL appendix.

* Commit: `5d271a0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5d271a03b1ae9aebe61eafc105e183c75653e2ee>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to "HTTP components for handling requests"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.http.schema.yaml`` according to the
"HTTP Components" feature introduced with
I1e2491dba5adc125a7b85a574c9b51c9ae2ff18f

Fixes: FLOW-35
* Related: `#52064 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52064>`_
* Commit: `b6e8816 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b6e88166391febd2e3702f04751da44ece9fb536>`_

[BUGFIX] PHP Notice when multiple namespace roots are set
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``Package`` class triggers a PHP Notice when a composer manifest
contains several search paths for the same prefix (see [1])::

    {
      "autoload": {
        "psr-0": {
          "Foo\\\\": ["src/", "tests/"]
        }
      }
    }

This commit changes the behaviour to using the first path as class
path when multiple paths are defined.

[1] https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#psr-0

Resolves: FLOW-94

* Commit: `b196453 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b196453b196d8f581439dfdfb21c1b4a3c3c3480>`_

[BUGFIX] Make sure functional tests have default resource setup
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Duplicates the default resource configuration to the testing
context to make sure that functional tests have a default
environment to run in. Additionally sets the publishing target
to a special testing path to avoid problems of resource removal.

* Commit: `d7d32c9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d7d32c9106eafdeb30fec2a16c75ea52d1a4a7de>`_

[BUGFIX] Support custom factories for constructor argument injection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It should be possible to use custom factories (``factoryObjectName``)
for constructor injection (``arguments``) the same way as they
can be used for property injection.

Resolves: FLOW-135

* Commit: `e60ce0c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e60ce0cba4fb528de3dec5ecf9e392078b952f23>`_

[TASK] Array converter should use streams to copy resource files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `6f1da6e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6f1da6e0dbf213d2b2c0f559d74c5438e727ce55>`_

[FEATURE] Collection and object to array converters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds two TypeConverters to convert objects to arrays and
Doctrine Collections to arrays.

* Commit: `0576ad6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0576ad6bd5d1f60fd6a2cd375b9ef5db5f694726>`_

[TASK] Adjust documentation to PHP 5.5
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust version requirements and remove magic quotes hint.

Related: FLOW-124

* Commit: `7a212cc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7a212ccf72d2933e544834dd8c64188673acf80d>`_

[BUGFIX] Use bin2hex in ObjectArray when using PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ObjectArray type still uses serialize() to convert to the database
value, thus producing data that cannot be used as is for a BYTEA column.

With this change, the serialized string is run through bin2hex() when
writing to the database and through hex2bin on the way back, if the
system runs on PostgreSQL.

Fixes: FLOW-132

* Commit: `9c0df0d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9c0df0db3fb77b4bda39a891495f39a0b0383827>`_

[FEATURE] Command for detecting and cleaning up broken resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a new command "resource:clean" which allows for detecting
resources which have no corresponding data anymore. It also resolves
related Asset objects from the TYPO3.Media package (if installed) and,
if requested, removes all broken resources including their assets from
the database.

Resolves: FLOW-131

* Commit: `82939e0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/82939e0b1de34c386ff295b74ae6a05e1c14575a>`_

[TASK] Throw more meaningful exception if resource could not be published
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This throws a more meaningful exception if a resource as part of a
collection to be published had no accesible data (no source stream).

* Commit: `afed2e4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/afed2e46b2f66b23f73161e5695e57483d46dde1>`_

[FEATURE] ResourceTypeConverter allows setting of collection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds PropertyMappingConfiguration options for the
ResourceTypeConverter to directly set the used collection via
``CONFIGURATION_COLLECTION_NAME`` or alternatively set it via
``__collectionName`` in the ``$source``.

Resolves: NEOS-787

* Commit: `dc0b6ef <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/dc0b6ef762467398069a61d65278d7c91d8cd154>`_

[BUGFIX] Regression in core migration 20141113121400
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In change I30de07c0bb5d322f1b8aa64d1cc890ebbe4c9ab9 we modified the
core migration Version20141113121400. However, "$this" is still not
allowed in a use() statement, also not in PHP 5.5.

Instead, $this is available in anonymous functions without any use
statement.

Related: FLOW-124

* Commit: `45523d8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/45523d8eb75191478ae07e039cbdbea6c2e263be>`_

[BUGFIX] "Session Not Started" exception
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The sole existence of the method Resource->__destruct() leads Doctrine
to proxy that method and run __load() before __destruct(), which in turn
will triger the SQL protection in Flow Security, which will then discover
that a possibly previously existing session has been half-destroyed
already.

So we go the safe way and use Flow's shutdown mechanism instead.

Resolves: FLOW-121

* Commit: `5affe9b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5affe9b4c7d9a206bf0b71b2002a23a0d8f9e790>`_

[TASK] Better way to close resource source stream
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using RackspaceCloudFiles I experienced "too many open files" errors.
This led me to change the point where one should close a resource
stream: instead of doing it in publishFile() I put the fclose() closer
to the getStream() call so you can actually see when the stream has been
fetched and when it has been closed.

Resolves: FLOW-122

* Commit: `66c6856 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/66c685661e9977cfbf74fc0520b2d3534908c9d7>`_

[FEATURE] Pointcut constraints on annotation properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change it is possible to add constraints on annotation
property values to the ``classAnnotatedWith`` and ``methodAnnotatedWith``
pointcut filters.

The following notation becomes valid then::

  methodAnnotatedWith(TYPO3\\Flow\\Annotations\\Session(autoStart == TRUE))

* Commit: `32b6119 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/32b611997d0f149ec8f782d59e19e203bb58fbf6>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent iteration over empty collection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This shouldn't make a difference but with the current way
properties are serialized in the TYPO3CR it can happen that
you have ArrayCollections which do contain a NULL value instead
of an array. This will break on the next serialization and this
prevents it.

* Commit: `fae9d8f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fae9d8f2cf0b500b12f680932dc21acb45cccf49>`_

[TASK] Remove unused flag from BaseTestCase
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

That flag has been deprecated sine PHPUnit 3.3, so it is time to say
goodbye.

* Commit: `8fc40d7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8fc40d74e7263d5250724fdddad68cd55dea6414>`_

[FEATURE] Allow privilege evaluation for arbitrary roles
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds two methods ``isGrantedForRoles()`` and
``isPrivilegeTargetGrantedForRoles()`` to the
``PrivilegeManagerInterface`` and its default implementation.

This allows to test privileges for roles independently from the
currently authenticated account.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `cc013cf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/cc013cf1ccb50601aa07f98389bd4924b9d87d59>`_

[FEATURE] Respect implementation of JsonSerializable interface
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The JsonView will call jsonSerialize() in transformValue()
for objects implementing the JsonSerializable interface. This is useful
if a domain model or data transfer object needs custom serialization
logic for JSON.

* Resolves: `#54092 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54092>`_
* Commit: `ab32c30 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ab32c30616b033657d4804eec5403164b0d13ba9>`_

[TASK] Fix duplicate exception codes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These exception codes were copied from the Eel package, now they are
timestamps fresh off the press.

* Commit: `d58e4f1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d58e4f1be21918c9e232e831e9870f5a3e2bb39c>`_

[TASK] Add "suggest" and "conflict" dependencies to newly created composer manifests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Newly created composer manifests only contained the "require" dependencies
of the package meta data. With this change also suggested and conflicting
dependencies are added.

Related: NEOS-785

* Commit: `4f2ec90 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4f2ec908b13140240a4fe7256b8eb6f8dceaf524>`_

[TASK] Adjust to PHP 5.5 requirement, remove checks, fix date.timezone
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The constant for the minimum PHP version has been raised to PHP 5.5.0 and some
code that existed purely for backwards compatibility with older PHP versions
has been removed.

This change removes a few checks for installed PHP extensions or PHP maximum
versions which are still from the PHP 6 era and are no longer necessary. It
also removes the dependency on ext-session (since we don't use it anyway) but
declares the dependency to ext-mbstring (since we do use that one).

We also don't set unicode related ini values which were only supported by
PHP 6. The check for the magic quotes setting is also now gone.

And finally, we don't require date.timezone to be set. Still, PHP does require
date.timezone to be set as soon as you are using date functions. In order to
still have a smooth setup experience we turn a blind eye on this setting and
simply configure the timezone to UTC if it hasn't been configured by the lazy
server admin.

Resolves: FLOW-124

* Commit: `5ca596b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5ca596bf3319428086c3b38ba1ff522c08e5bd00>`_

[TASK] Make "renderingGroup" available to custom exception handlers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts the exception handling slightly to make the
resolved "renderingGroup" available to custom exception handlers.

Besides, this sets the Fluid StandaloneView request package to
"TYPO3.Flow" for depending ViewHelpers to work properly.

This is currently required for TYPO3.Neos in order to localize the
error messages.

Related: NEOS-497

* Commit: `8fd47eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8fd47ebf9e3cd498c926ed43f3e2cf6bc8c89538>`_

[TASK] Add missing doc comments in ResourceManager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: NEOS-789

* Commit: `8e59dcf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8e59dcfa18935f381ab804e4b72faf6fbf7dd99e>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix postPackageUpdateAndInstall() in Flow
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a package declares it has some resource to install by defining::

  "extra": {
      "typo3/flow": {
          "manage-resources" : true
      }
  }

in the composer manifest, the contents of the `Defaults` and `Essentials`
folders in `Resources/Private/Installer` is supposed to be copied to the
project root.

This was broken, the files were copied to their own source location
instead, breaking changes like https://review.typo3.org/34312

Fixes: FLOW-120

* Commit: `bd3d8c6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/bd3d8c69e16802c90f1eaf3d61ee2a47d6c418cd>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix getStaticResourcesWebBaseUri()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the deprecated method ``getStaticResourcesWebBaseUri()``
in the ResourcePublisher and adds some logging for usage of the
deprecated methods.

Resolves: FLOW-118

* Commit: `30e2e98 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/30e2e98d5702e3d33f95df1791495cf552718434>`_

[TASK] Fix a doc comment in ResourcePublisher
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `59b4c37 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/59b4c3719b3ab14f0e06868519c8f28adc19bdb1>`_

[FEATURE] Add entity privilege target for Doctrine persistence
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a new privilege type, beeing able to filter all Doctrine queries
for entities the current roles should not be allowed to see.

This is working for all entities retrieved from persistence via
Doctrine, no matter if it’s done with DQL, QOM or while
lazy loading relations.

Resolves: FLOW-10

* Commit: `0b0ca50 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0b0ca50ee40f72f5e2cd14bb71f95efc45b06fb5>`_

[TASK] Move privilege evaluation into privilege manager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To avoid usage of a static vote functions in privilege
classes, this change moves evaluation of privileges into
the privilege manager.
This change removes the concept of privilege voters, which
is not needed due to the posssibility of implementing custom
privilege types.

This change also fixes an inconsistency within the privilege
evaluation process: Privilege targets with runtime evaluations
will no longer taken into account, if the runtime constraint
does not match the current situation.

When setting the same privilege twice within the same role,
only the last one will have effect. With that it is actually possible
to override permissions, e.g. in a dependant package.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `11b0d75 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/11b0d7568d7e9327a977594560011d5c73d599a1>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Multi-Storage / Multi-Target Resource Management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a revised resource management which allows
for storage and publication of persistent or static resources (assets)
in the local file system or other services, such as Amazon S3 or
Rackspace CloudFiles. It also introduces the concept of collections
which allows for grouping resources into collections with specific
storage and publication rules.

Existing persistent resources are migrated through the Doctrine
migration contained in this feature.

Note: this change raises the PHP requirement to 5.5.

Resolves: FLOW-108

* Commit: `37396c7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/37396c7c20f8275cabc12baa70e254f0d229faed>`_

[BUGFIX] Memcached backend not cleared across Cli/Web requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is because the backend is bound to the executing script + SAPI mode
and not the installation path + Flow context. This makes it
impossible to clear entries created in the Web with the
Cli cache flush commands, and vice versa.

Additionally the Flow context is not taking into account so
the Development/Production share the same cache, which can
lead to undesired behavior.

Fixes: FLOW-116

* Commit: `6c253fb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6c253fb0172b91cf2ad1efcc88a05365bc8d6bb8>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `eef5f61 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/eef5f61e78f7597f39e2b88b33dcba7ec8c4b1e6>`_

[TASK] Remove unused test fixture
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ff28790 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ff28790e959508546ef467cda4cc4c9d841be118>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `88b2e59 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/88b2e59bd45fbdb7d506fec97a0b05ccdc8b07f7>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Skip automatic persistence for updated entities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When trying to persist changes in a "safe request" (e.g. ``GET``) Flow
throws an exception::

  Detected modified or new objects [...] to be persisted which is not
  allowed for "safe requests"

including details on how to work around this.

This currently only works if entities have been *added* or *removed*.

With this change also *updates* to entities are tracked correctly so
that automatic persistence is skipped for modified objects for safe
requests.

This is a breaking change when code relied on the incorrect behavior of
automatically persisting changes even for safe requests.
In this case make sure to trigger updates only via unsafe requests (e.g.
``POST`` or ``PUT``).
If that's not an option, the issue can be worked around with a manual
call to ``PersistenceManager::persistAll()``.

Fixes: FLOW-84
* Related: `#47252 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/47252>`_
* Related: `#51570 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/51570>`_

* Commit: `ad0c717 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ad0c7178d98e5aa94da5eaf246f928f3040cea91>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Flow 2.3.0-beta1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the 2.3.0-beta1 change log to the master branch.

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/23/

* Commit: `f90545e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f90545ecaac91345f71be53fef6e1730417076e3>`_

[BUGFIX] Mark security tests using static mocks incomplete
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This marks five tests that use static mocks as incomplete. Static method
mocking is no longer supported since PHPUnit 4.0, and the test failures
do not indicate a broken functionality.

Instead they might mask other test failures, because "everyone knows"
the build is broken by these tests...

* Commit: `d3c9bd2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d3c9bd2cfb5e70193a42945c261f590cd2df065b>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Restructure policy component to new Policy.yaml format
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces the new concept for policies and
privileges. It also includes a restructuring of the privilege
voting process.

This is a breaking change mainly because it drops support for content
security and secure downloads. Both features will be re-added by new
privilege types in separate changes.
Besides it is quite likely that custom code that interacts with the
(non-public) API of the security framework won't work without
adjustments.

The new ``Policy.yaml`` syntax is covered by code migrations, so make
sure to run::

  ./flow core:migrate
  ./flow doctrine:migrate

commands and to carefully read their output.

Resolves: FLOW-11

* Commit: `7e33515 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7e33515840cbe94f0e578bd2444442ac5d1586da>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust code migration identifier pattern to contain the full timestamp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously code migrations are expected to have a class name with the
pattern ``Version<YYYYMMDDhhmm>`` and the unique identifier was
determined extracting the last 12 characters of the class name (which
are expected to be the timestamp).

With this change everything after the "Version" string is considered for
the identifier, allowing the timestamp to contain seconds as well.

This also adjusts existing code migrations to use the full timestamp in
order to establish the new guideline (note: those migrations still
return the old identifier so that they won't be applied again with a
new identifier).

Fixes: FLOW-110

* Commit: `c4122d9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c4122d9b12e02c39e164cac6c565a8e6b81b3333>`_

[BUGFIX] Make rewriteFilenameForUri handle non-ASCII names correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the filename consists completely of non-ASCII characters,
the ``rewriteFilenameForUri`` would substitute it with empty filename
like ".jpg", resulting in a broken resource link.

This change makes ``rewriteFilenameForUri`` accept unicode character.
In addition it checks if the filename is empty after the rewrite and
names it "unnamed.<fileExtension>" if needed.

Fixes: FLOW-99

* Commit: `6a9a39f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6a9a39f648e9a0317b0424d0244f28aa60eab2e1>`_

[TASK] Fix wrong path in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: FLOW-91

* Commit: `2b11a09 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2b11a0964f8befcb118a9d2235dfad97fd027fd4>`_

[TASK] Add helper to get the simple type or className of a value
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `176aee5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/176aee559f1d131f17a3f8fb6645bd414f79a644>`_

[FEATURE] UriTemplate implementation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds UriTemplate as per RFC 6570, allowing expansion of templates
into URI strings::

  // results in "foo/bar/baz"
  UriTemplate::expand('foo/{var}/baz', array('var' => 'bar'));

See the unit test and/or RFC for the long list of possible expansions.

* Commit: `775d927 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/775d927e06b740364a2dfb032a5cd0ee3d78c36d>`_

[FEATURE] Allow setting ini entries to sub requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a configuration option ``core.subRequestIniEntries``
where additional INI entries which should be passed
to the Flow CLI sub request can be stated.

This is exactly the behaviour of passing such a value via
the ``-d`` parameter of the php CLI.

* Commit: `e382e32 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e382e32a3ef7167e3580fc06d5c94860ebf91680>`_

[FEATURE] A Translation EelHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds an EelHelper for fetching translation IDs.

Usage example::

  ${Flow.I18n.Translation.translateById('someId', 'Acme.Shop')}

* Commit: `af08533 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/af0853389c8c26e54e49f86817e281f449f72731>`_

[TASK] In Debugger, blacklist Repository and Service objects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to reduce the vulnerability of unwanted recursion,
properties of objects ending with ``*Service`` or ``*Repository``
are not rendered again.

* Commit: `7e80e07 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7e80e076954136f3ef7f59624ee79d45ba98fed5>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Undo requirements adjustment from CI job
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The release CI job adjusted requirements dutifully, but the result was
not as expected, because we humans missed some needed changes.

* Commit: `ef57493 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/ef57493729c8d0e43f41c63252f1683a01ecc1bc>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/30/

* Commit: `51eb9b8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/51eb9b875fd9849967e01169930ff9354c943cfb>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/7/

* Commit: `403f115 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/403f11579f4d5fd228b2420606ba0ded2d7885ec>`_

[TASK] Mark recent core migrations applied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit doesn't contain any changes, it simply marks recent
migrations applied so that::

  ./flow flow:core:migrate --status

won't show any open migrations for this package.

* Commit: `6ef62c0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/6ef62c01d1f9dadcc204df283489f763adcb9f61>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unit test in AbstractFormViewHelperTest test case
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to I80e7e664e7a1fa41dc36bdf89e331086c6815f78 that
fixes a unit test.

Related: FLOW-213

* Commit: `5820a1e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5820a1ea179d4a9cb3e78c1acdeaacb76cc65039>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix retrieval of property mapping results if formObjectName is not specified
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to I18c99dcd057435a15ebdf2faf55c7cbfc83cb47f that
fixes an issue that lead to ``getMappingResultsForProperty()`` returning
an empty result if no ``formObjectName`` was specified.

Related: FLOW-215

* Commit: `65c449e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/65c449e4e9ae52f7c8555d6cfd17135e3bd5cbca>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Submitted form data has precedence over value argument
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the behavior of all Form ViewHelpers so that any
submitted value is redisplayed even if a "value" argument has been
specified.

Being able to specify the "value" argument in Form ViewHelpers is a
good way to pre-format the initial value::

	<f:form.textfield property="price"
		value="{product.price -> f:format.number()}" />

The issue with this, however, was that upon re-display of the form due
to property-mapping or validation errors the value argument had
precedence over the previously submitted value.

This is a breaking change if you expect the previous behavior of form
ViewHelpers always being pre-populated with the specified value
attribute / bound object property even when re-displaying the form upon
validation errors.
Besides this change deprecates
``AbstractFormFieldViewHelper::getValue()``. If you call that method in
your custom ViewHelpers you should use
``AbstractFormFieldViewHelper::getValueAttribute()`` instead and call
``AbstractFormFieldViewHelper::addAdditionalIdentityPropertiesIfNeeded()``
explicitly if the ViewHelper might be bound to (sub)entities.

Fixes: FLOW-213

* Commit: `c2abfe9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/c2abfe9741517bbb6a416bc26f4fa733fde50720>`_

[BUGFIX] Highlight validation errors for unbound Form ViewHelpers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes sure that the error class attribute is set on
validation/property-mapping errors even if the "property" argument
is not specified on the respective Form ViewHelper.

Fixes: FLOW-215

* Commit: `e4a06ae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/e4a06ae54e3cbf1b5484c3d620ffca9dda5fde8f>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix risky unit tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts two unit tests that are marked "risky"/fail when
running PhpUnit in ``strict`` mode.

* Commit: `8d1496a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/8d1496afed84f59f18b32e8bc0bbeead173d2f1e>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Consistent escaping behavior
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a major rework of the interceptors that are currently mostly
used to automatically apply ``htmlspecialchars()`` to dynamic strings
in Fluid templates.

This is a breaking change because it affects the basic escaping
behavior of Fluid:

The escaping interceptor is now always enabled by default. Previously
this was only the case if the request format was unknown or equal to
"html".
To disable the automatic escaping add ``{escapingEnabled=false}``
anywhere in the template or (preferably) use the raw ViewHelper::

  {objectAccess -> f:format.raw()}
  {x:some.viewHelper() -> f:format.raw()}
  {objectAccess -> x:some.viewHelper() -> f:format.raw()}
  <f:format.raw><x:some.viewHelper /></f:format.raw>

Furthermore the ``escapingInterceptorEnabled`` flag in the
``AbstractViewHelper`` has been deprecated in favor of a new flag
``escapeChildren``. The behavior of the flag is still the same though
and the old name will still work.

Lastly the *output* of ViewHelpers is now also escaped by default!
Previously ViewHelper authors had to take care of that themselves
which was error-prone and less flexible.
The escaping of a custom ViewHelper can be disabled by setting the new
flag ``escapeOutput`` to FALSE in the ViewHelper class.
But this should only be necessary if:
a) The result of ``$this->renderChildren()`` is used directly as output
   (child nodes are escaped by default).
b) The ViewHelper renders HTML code.
   *Beware:* In that case the output will need manual data sanitization
   ViewHelpers extending ``AbstractTagBasedViewHelper`` will already
   have the flag set.

All provided ViewHelpers are adjusted accordingly with one exception:
The output of URI-ViewHelpers such as ``uri.action`` or ``widget.uri``
is now escaped for consistency reasons. If those are used to render HTML
tag attributes the new behavior is desired because those will be
properly encoded now. If the result of an URI ViewHelper is used
directly, for example within some inline JavaScript the new escaping
might break. In this case the raw ViewHelper can be used, as described
above like done in the ``Index.html`` template of the ``Autocomplete``
widget.

Affected packages can be adjusted automatically by running provided core
migration::

  ./flow core:migrate --version 20150214130800

Depends: If66a2dff21b239963728963f15437599a8442f72

Resolves: FLOW-26

* Commit: `3506ba6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/3506ba639f2efbd367a59feab9a396b8a697361b>`_

[FEATURE] Allow usage of "else" argument with child nodes in AbstractConditionViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This feature allows for mixing usage of arguments and child node
rendering for all ``AbstractConditionViewHelpers``. This allows for
writing::

  <f:if condition="{products}" else="There are no products">
    <f:for each="{products}">
      <!-- ... -->
    </f:for>
  </f:if>

To achieve what previously had to be written as::

  <f:if condition="{products}">
    <f:then>
      <f:for each="{products}">
        <!-- ... -->
      </f:for>
    </f:then>
    <f:else>
      There are no products
    </f:else>
  </f:if>

Resolves: FLOW-200

* Commit: `18f28e0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/18f28e0a73d831ef502e63746f4cb5f815c6f1eb>`_

[BUGFIX] Render Form CSRF token field only if authenticated
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently ``CSRF`` tokens are only enforced if an account is
authenticated. But the form ViewHelper rendered the corresponding
hidden field for all forms with method != "GET".

Background:

Rendering the hidden field did not have a side effect before but as
CSRF tokens only make sense with an active session,
``Security\\Context::getCsrfProtectionToken()`` will be adjusted to start
a session when called. Therefore the token should only be fetched if it's
really required.

Related: FLOW-130

* Commit: `3ee880c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/3ee880c9b1b812b4bc20162a1059b18699c0d74a>`_

[FEATURE] "account" option for security.ifHasRole view helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a new option "account" for the ifHasRole view
helper which allows for specifying an account other than the currently
authenticated account.

Additionally the "role" option now allows roles to be specified as
Role objects.

Resolves: FLOW-182

* Commit: `6f3f903 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/6f3f9030aea25b4ec88929cc37b4c93762ddf9a7>`_

[TASK] Allow registering namespaces multiple times unless there are conflicts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the ``TemplateParser`` throws an exception if the same
namespace identifier is registered multiple times.

With this change this exception is skipped if the repeated
registration does not pose conflicts, i.e. points to the same
PHP namespace as previous mappings.

Background:
This is a follow-up to I965cb54c3125f80e7a5ae46ede72ee9027ed006e that
registers all package keys as Fluid namespaces.
Due to some unrelated bug ``PackageManager::getActivePackages()`` can
return the same package key twice leading to an exception:
"#1224241246: Namespace identifier "xyz" is already registered.".

Related: FLOW-151

* Commit: `0a60c85 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/0a60c85b7bc68a507f810734360892471761f6f5>`_

[TASK] Add missing line breaks at the end of files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most of TYPO3 Fluid's PHP files end with a line break (empty line).
This change adds this line break at the end of PHP files if it is missing.

This is not part of the CGL but increases consistency in this
area.

This regular expression was used to add the empty lines:

Search::

 (})\\Z(?!\\n)

Replace::

 $1\\n

Fixes: FLOW-161

* Commit: `b532aee <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/b532aeed850bcebde5807f413eb063d2cf98eaa3>`_

Revert "[!!!][FEATURE] Consistent escaping behavior"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit ebc454f5b6d55a21bee940d0ab48e6dc534bf9b5
because that change breaks FE and BE rendering of Neos.

* Commit: `e54d350 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/e54d3504e58f21bf569f2bc831fc5a582a7c432a>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Consistent escaping behavior
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a major rework of the interceptors that are currently mostly
used to automatically apply ``htmlspecialchars()`` to dynamic strings
in Fluid templates.

This is a breaking change because it affects the basic escaping
behavior of Fluid:

The escaping interceptor is now always enabled by default. Previously
this was only the case if the request format was unknown or equal to
"html".
To disable the automatic escaping add ``{escapingEnabled=false}``
anywhere in the template or (preferably) use the raw ViewHelper::

  {objectAccess -> f:format.raw()}
  {x:some.viewHelper() -> f:format.raw()}
  {objectAccess -> x:some.viewHelper() -> f:format.raw()}
  <f:format.raw><x:some.viewHelper /></f:format.raw>

Furthermore the ``escapingInterceptorEnabled`` flag in the
``AbstractViewHelper`` has been deprecated in favor of a new flag
``escapeChildren``. The behavior of the flag is still the same though
and the old name will still work.

Lastly the *output* of ViewHelpers is now also escaped by default!
Previously ViewHelper authors had to take care of that themselves
which was error-prone and less flexible.
The escaping of a custom ViewHelper can be disabled by setting the new
flag ``escapeOutput`` to FALSE in the ViewHelper class.
But this should only be necessary if:
a) The result of ``$this->renderChildren()`` is used directly as output
   (child nodes are escaped by default).
b) The ViewHelper renders HTML code.
   *Beware:* In that case the output will need manual data sanitization
   ViewHelpers extending ``AbstractTagBasedViewHelper`` will already
   have the flag set.

All provided ViewHelpers are adjusted accordingly with one exception:
The output of URI-ViewHelpers such as ``uri.action`` or ``widget.uri``
is now escaped for consistency reasons. If those are used to render HTML
tag attributes the new behavior is desired because those will be
properly encoded now. If the result of an URI ViewHelper is used
directly, for example within some inline JavaScript the new escaping
might break. In this case the raw ViewHelper can be used, as described
above like done in the ``Index.html`` template of the ``Autocomplete``
widget.

Resolves: FLOW-26

* Commit: `ebc454f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/ebc454f5b6d55a21bee940d0ab48e6dc534bf9b5>`_

[FEATURE] Configurable namespaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a signal to the ``TemplateParser`` that allows for
registering ViewHelper namespaces.

With I965cb54c3125f80e7a5ae46ede72ee9027ed006e that is used to
register all Flow keys of active packages as ViewHelper
namespaces.

Resolves: FLOW-151

* Commit: `77e9492 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/77e94925fcd546c6f072b06ca1bc5a841366d637>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Throw exception for unresolved namespaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change the Fluid parser now throws an exception when it comes
across an unknown ViewHelper namespace.

That is especially helpful if you forgot to import a namespace or
mistyped a ViewHelper name.

It is a breaking change if you rely on the previous behavior of
ignoring ViewHelpers with unknown namespaces.
In that case you can ignore all unknown namespaces with::

  {namespace *}

Specific namespaces can be ignored like this::

  {namespace xs*}  <!-- ignores namespaces starting with "xs" -->
  {namespace foo}  <!-- ignores the namespace "foo" -->

Resolves: FLOW-150

* Commit: `e7d2d6d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/e7d2d6d625aa40f2792c130345954e33101543e9>`_

[TASK] Streamline regular expression for Resource URLs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The regular expression to split templates finding resource URLs
is prone to breaking in case the match grows too long because it
has no boundaries. This change stops the match earlier, this also
massively increases the matching speed.

* Commit: `531dcd3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/531dcd318566e2bc9089c303e47a289b521f520b>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw helpful exception if ViewHelper class can't be resolved
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds some case sensitive checks for the resolved ViewHelper
class name in order to prevent misleading fatal errors.

Background:

Previously, if the user mis-spelled a ViewHelper, e.g. by typing
``<f:format.textField>`` instead of ``<f:format.textfield>``, the system
failed with a fatal error of the following form::

	Fatal error: Call to a member function getMethodParameters() on a non-object
	in .../Core/ViewHelper/AbstractViewHelper.php on line 349

The cause of this error is that the reflection service was not properly
injected into the ViewHelper, which happens because the class loader of Flow
loads the non-instrumented class instead of the instrumented one.

This, in turn, happens because ``Data/Temporary/.../AvailableProxyClasses.php``
(which was introduced in Ie09b4e8891b61b33fd9bba3627a8312be02b1486) contains
only correctly-spelled class names; making the classloader believe that it
is not responsible for the ViewHelper.

Fixes: FLOW-152

* Commit: `106f678 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/106f67839d4c8d5a0613bd0fb676f1c59684c06b>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix documentation (default vs. value) in TranslateViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation in the header of TranslateViewHelper didn't represent
the new naming of attributes. The former "default" is now called
"value".

Resolves: FLOW-77

* Commit: `083be4a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/083be4a388456b74c577be1d5ff3075d0cb73c09>`_

[TASK] Use Filesize utility functions in ByteViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``format.bytes`` ViewHelper to use the
``Utility\\Files::bytesToSizeString()`` function introduced with
I9b35d1b08c7cb1f41330d88f62fc1092e90880c6

Depends: I9b35d1b08c7cb1f41330d88f62fc1092e90880c6

* Commit: `5de85e6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5de85e6c2809a882a60b00c06708da31bf899ed2>`_

[TASK] Improve ViewHelper documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation of a few ViewHelpers is tweaked so it renders
correctly.

* Commit: `5c01538 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5c01538d143679a34f77cf06996cabf63258cbed>`_

[FEATURE] Provide option for resourced collection in upload view helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes allows for specifying the name of the resource collection
where the file should be uploaded to. If it is not specified, the default
persistent resources collection will be used.

Related: NEOS-787

* Commit: `d1dad4d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/d1dad4d40bdf2ab84b1db803aca03ff3cd67eeaf>`_

[TASK] Translate ViewHelper: Throw exception if current package can't be resolved
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``f:translate`` ViewHelper to throw an exception if the
package key can't be determined from the current request.

Related: NEOS-497

* Commit: `78a1155 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/78a11556081c4d1c17d00f4e57a2ed4f09d573e0>`_

[!!!][TASK] Remove usage of ReflectionService in ViewHelpers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``AbstractViewHelper`` now uses compile static to get all
needed information about the render method of ViewHelper implementations.

As the AbstractViewHelper doesn't use the ReflectionService
anymore it was removed. This is breaking if a ViewHelper implementation
relies on the fact that ``$this->reflectionService`` is available. A
code migration warns about the possible usage of it.

* Commit: `3adb3c3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/3adb3c3ded8ff90bbce1a0386a6a120fe0dde322>`_

[TASK] Adjustments for the new resource management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: FLOW-108

* Commit: `8419e53 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/8419e5329179a780b9bdedce7fec1f65dd0a94d8>`_

[TASK] Adjust to acl changes in Flow
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``security.ifAccess`` ViewHelper to the recent refactoring
of the Security Framework in TYPO3.Flow.
Namely the argument "resource" has been renamed to "privilegeTarget".

This change also provides a code migration that should adjust affected
Fluid templates. Make sure to run::

  ./flow core:migrate

in order to apply those changes.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `fa99600 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/fa99600196bbb7241c2fcdf59384317f057e960d>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust code migration identifier pattern to contain the full timestamp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously code migrations are expected to have a class name with the
pattern ``Version<YYYYMMDDhhmm>`` and the unique identifier was
determined extracting the last 12 characters of the class name (which
are expected to be the timestamp).

This change adjusts existing code migrations to use the full timestamp in
order to establish the new guideline (note: those migrations still
return the old identifier so that they won't be applied again with a
new identifier).

Related: FLOW-110

* Commit: `5e4c9de <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5e4c9de56116d3e96140d26cdf2da6ea9412d230>`_

[TASK] Defer variable-initialization in AbstractViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tweaks ``AbstractViewHelper::validateArguments()`` by deferring
a variable initialization until it's really used.

* Resolves: `#53805 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53805>`_
* Commit: `c3911bd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/c3911bdeb528202d8405240f0c2841a5d9319f0d>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Undo requirements adjustment from CI job
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The release CI job adjusted requirements dutifully, but the result was
not as expected, because we humans missed some needed changes.

* Commit: `c3a6d6c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/c3a6d6c16006cb01ec053c2eeff7e9f920945e79>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/30/

* Commit: `81ce8d5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/81ce8d522996144354d59b1696d270ea618e396c>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/7/

* Commit: `fbc9ab7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/fbc9ab78d3e900c6692f539e40960c82cd3d1f87>`_

[TASK] Mark recent core migrations applied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit doesn't contain any changes, it simply marks recent
migrations applied so that::

  ./flow flow:core:migrate --status

won't show any open migrations for this package.

* Commit: `c8234b2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/c8234b213e0b821072cedd1a4981a555b66c099c>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Undo requirements adjustment from CI job
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The release CI job adjusted requirements dutifully, but the result was
not as expected, because we humans missed some needed changes.

* Commit: `7cafb69 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/7cafb697cffd4057c9def670a1dfe8a3f9aeb423>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/30/

* Commit: `c27399f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/c27399f219f810e5dca6c85ae2ea2acc3be9b8fe>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-branch/7/

* Commit: `6f60773 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/6f6077306b3e48ab215601709918c1fa3008583f>`_

[TASK] Fix links in TYPO3.Welcome template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes some links still pointing to forge.type.org.

* Commit: `4b33416 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/4b334169eaf9038fe26b25a37ceb8d885584224b>`_

