====================
3.0.0-beta3
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Do not require dev-master of doctrine/migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With doctrine/migrations not having had a stable branch for years,
Flow always required dev-master. Now that 1.0 is being worked on,
require @dev instead and delegate the version to the Flow package.

Related: FLOW-300

* Commit: `69fdaa4 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/69fdaa4a05cef0ef900278f09e3fe1a117238d1b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Correct indentation in ``EelExpressionRecognizer``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3914c09 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/3914c09f4c43864be0409a001b9405d4acc84d5b>`_

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `96e05b4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/96e05b4a6d587d90aeaf9a824c1bbfaab3d7233d>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/51/

* Commit: `183cf7a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/183cf7ab641baae26df3c854d9735759c76d4ace>`_

[BUGFIX] Do not register lifecycles for unproxied entities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When entities are annotated @Flow\\Proxy(false), lifecycle methods for
fix* are still registered in the AnnotationDriver, leading to an
exception being thrown by doctrine that the lifecycle callback method
does not exist.

Since unproxied classes are not supposed to work with AOP/DI and those
fix* methods only deal with that, the registration of those fixes is
unneeded in that case.

This changeset fixes that, by only registering lifecycle callbacks on
entities that are proxied.

Fixes: FLOW-258

* Commit: `613051e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/613051e7064684e2dd3fa34edeb3ab776ae71c2e>`_

[FEATURE] Request patterns for host name and IP addresses
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds RequestPatterns for **host name** and **IP addresses**.
Host names are configurable with a simple wildcard ('*') pattern, IP
addresses use ``CIDR`` style pattern with support for both ``IPv4`` and
``IPv6`` following ``RFC4632`` and ``RFC4291``.

Examples:

Only grant access to clients with IPs from *192.168.178.0* to
*192.168.178.255*::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      security:
        firewall:
          rejectAll: TRUE
          filters:
            'ip':
              patternType:  'Ip'
              patternValue: '192.168.178.0/24'
              interceptor:  'AccessGrant'

Protect an area of your application file based authentication **and** IP
check (only trigger authentication and entry points for clients with an
IP of ``127.0.0.1``)::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      security:
        authentication:
          providers:
            'LocalNetworkProvider':
              provider: 'FileBasedSimpleKeyProvider'
              providerOptions:
                keyName: 'AdminKey'
                authenticateRoles: ['Acme.SomePackage:Administrator']
              requestPatterns:
                controllerObjectName: 'Acme\\SomePackage\\Controller\\Administration\\.*'
                ip: '::7F00:1'

* Resolves: `#49522 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49522>`_
* Commit: `2c1c4a3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2c1c4a323cac2670b41584aa213109584de778fe>`_

[BUGFIX] First Functional test run should not be marked risky
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Changing globals inside of the test code (which includes the setUp method)
will set the test to risky and immediately skip the execution of the test.
Globals are now changed in ``setupBeforeClass`` to avoid this problem.

* Commit: `5c188b4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5c188b4e2230021d44c4b0bbb97ecf9dc4d8f217>`_

[BUGFIX] Check if migrations exist before trying to register them
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the check for the existence of migration files is delegated
to the doctrine/migration third party library.

The behavior has changed and an exception is thrown if the folder doesn't
exist. To not let the third party library handle that and to prevent this,
the check is done upstream in Flow.

Fixes: FLOW-301

* Commit: `a6ff94b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a6ff94b6c134c5ec42781b2e48c521ebec81b72a>`_

[TASK] Require doctrine/migrations 1.0.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With doctrine/migrations not having had a stable branch for years,
Flow always required dev-master. Now that 1.0 is being worked on,
require that instead.

Related: FLOW-300

* Commit: `c9e9567 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c9e95672965e79b67e50b40ba3ed5cac7e9a0e39>`_

[BUGFIX] Save unicode characters unescaped in JsonArrayType
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As there might be the need of a string search in the JSON data
all unicode characters should be stored unescaped to allow them
to be properly searched and compared.

* Commit: `c25b1eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c25b1eb4d77ceedd3e90e33247e5b7f3b7434413>`_

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b0a633a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b0a633aeebbdff990f3a8e8e715aaf725352cea2>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `5180304 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5180304ff4143534b0f67f980716a316b94129bd>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8124f33 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/8124f3347b62fcfca94b91c240c7fe234e50d26d>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Relax dependencies to allow any branch version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7bbcddd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/7bbcddd01f58b69565da4d2a8b7b55c16de85a65>`_

