====================
3.0.0
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Remove TYPO3.Party from set-dependencies.sh
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `fee8e37 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/fee8e377b5d6ccab611fbc609c029b4433ac3977>`_

[TASK] Remove unintentional typo3/party requirement
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8f4c023 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/8f4c023b741f945aa5e0e4b076cf0a3720298767>`_

[TASK] Update PHPUnit requirement to 4.5.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates PHPUnit to version 4.5.*

* Commit: `0c45280 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/0c45280008575a7678eda7092d669d33e114a84a>`_

[TASK] Update PhpUnit to 4.3 and vfsStream to 1.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `67f1617 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/67f1617c48dcafd18660784b809b1a63fd355080>`_

[TASK] Update PHPUnit and vfsStream dependencies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates PHPUnit from 4.5 to 4.6 and vfsStream from 1.4 to 1.5.

* Commit: `c7a5362 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/c7a536232a9ebb62a0a75f4d89bf5232edda1a47>`_

[TASK] Fix dependencies to branch versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `39a8d75 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/39a8d7571cf1d431abfd6f7cca6b43fe62525408>`_

[TASK] Adjust to changed parameters for `commit_manifest_update`
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: NEOS-1216
Depends: I791174633d2b1b0fb7263504744901d87bbb1ec6

* Commit: `1381385 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/13813850858d54edcb1ee521d7540a2d7752b3fb>`_

[TASK] Do not require dev-master of doctrine/migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With doctrine/migrations not having had a stable branch for years,
Flow always required dev-master. Now that 1.0 is being worked on,
require @dev instead and delegate the version to the Flow package.

Related: FLOW-300

* Commit: `69fdaa4 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/69fdaa4a05cef0ef900278f09e3fe1a117238d1b>`_

[TASK] Add flowpack/behat to distribution
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have Behat tests in the Flow package, but the base distribution
lacks the needed tooling to easily run them. With this change, you can
do this::

  cd Build/Behat
  composer install

When this is finished, running the tests is possible::

  bin/behat --ansi -f progress -v -c Packages/Framework/TYPO3.Flow/Tests/Behavior/behat.yml.dist

* Commit: `b6894cf <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/b6894cf18a91bf72a983867f78c8e6b56f34fd88>`_

[TASK] Tweak ``create-changelog.sh`` script to link issues
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Replaces Jira ticket references like "* Fixes: `FLOW-123 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-123>`_" with
links to the actual ticket.

* Commit: `a73e2c9 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/a73e2c9e6e85c433020e725a17f6a65af02beca1>`_

[BUGFIX] Use more specific version of doctrine/migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pins the version to a release candidate
(~1.0.0 is specified in TYPO3.Flow) instead of the dev-master version
that is implied by "@dev".

* Fixes: `FLOW-343 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-343>`_
* Commit: `8147329 <https://git.typo3.org/Flow/Distributions/Base.git/commit/8147329bdfd073cf6ef5e7877de1c6387c82f486>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Eel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix unit test in ``ExpressionSyntaxValidatorTest`` test case
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a typo in a unit test introduced with
Iaec2e11dfac0b35510c9fc0f6ac08e7d80d92268.

* Commit: `4d067cc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/4d067ccf008fbc2ca667b60730676b1fe04eba9c>`_

[FEATURE] Provide an Eel expression syntax validator
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a Flow Validator which allows to check
for a correct syntax. The expression given must
lack the wrapping ``${…}``.

The validation is done by simply handing the given
expression to the eel parser.

* Commit: `d9cfdab <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/d9cfdabbd0282b0fce91c7e7f740b2f96328b47a>`_

[TASK] Mark recent core migrations applied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit doesn't contain any changes, it simply marks recent
migrations applied so that::

  ./flow flow:core:migrate --status

won't show any open migrations for this package.

* Commit: `f899cbf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/f899cbfc0cf9befe4337b0338a9bf52ea9e981bb>`_

[FEATURE] Add SecurityHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a helper for security related information and checks.
This implementation is just a stub for now to help fix a bug.
The only available method is ``getAccount()`` more should be
added in the future.

Related: NEOS-1012

* Commit: `52655bb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/52655bbc62ed491b25e7311f841711b77f0d33a0>`_

[FEATURE] Additional Fizzle comparison operators (<, <=, >, >=)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implements lessThan, lessThanOrEqual, greaterThan, greaterThanOrEqual
comparison operators in Fizzle.

Example usage::

  {q(site).children('someNodesInHere').filter('[someProperty >= 10]')}

Related: FLOW-178

* Commit: `2202ff3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/2202ff3050039e3564585afbf34749dbab04bdc7>`_

[BUGFIX] Children operation does not work with collections
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Children operation applied to entities and giving the name of a
collection property don't retrieve the collection

* Fixes: `#52450 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52450>`_
* Commit: `c8dd025 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/c8dd025771842ee236c4bc751a8e4976348ebfe1>`_

[FEATURE] Add String.length(s) helper function
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: FLOW-141

* Commit: `c53f30f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/c53f30ff6ecadca34cdaafad2df4c9f456e7c723>`_

[TASK] Support for non-wrapped value in FlowQuery add() operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implements support to add values to a FlowQuery result without wrapping::

    q(node).add(someOtherNode)

Traversable arguments are still supported::

    q(node).add(q(someOtherNode))

Resolves: FLOW-142

* Commit: `a4a14be <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/a4a14be2c761bd770c375be6e634d408148988d1>`_

[BUGFIX] children() operation with an empty context should never fail
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes sure that the children operation always returns
an empty result if an empty context was given. This is needed because
the TYPO3CR children operation might be chained and the later operation
will be resolved to the object version.

Fixes: NEOS-523

* Commit: `066c045 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/066c045d89d4458323fd3df5ca2365130f8509b5>`_

[TASK] Make cached Eel expression avoid duplicate declarations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After the introduction of the EntityPrivilegeExpressionEvaluator with
the ACL changes the functional ActionControllerTest failed with::

  Cannot redeclare expression_c4cc6f98eb99414122ca432a08debb4c()

By wrapping the cached Eel expression code in function_exists() checks
this error is avoided.

* Commit: `fa59904 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/fa59904027a9d5fce88a19078141faead9aae908>`_

[FEATURE] Add ``isFloat``, ``isObject`` & ``isScalar`` to ``TypeHelper``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds three additional functions to the ``TypeHelper``,
which were left out in the first implementation.

* Commit: `cda349c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/cda349c87492f2c1a9be6a7d3cfdad603e854042>`_

[FEATURE] Add TypeHelper to get variable type information
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This helper allows to get information about variable types
in EEL expressions.

* Commit: `13b26da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/13b26da24db65e4dad0eb8b2cb3f2028c571bbab>`_

[BUGFIX] EEL expressions should be trimmed before parsing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As the EEL parser will not accept expressions that start or end
with a whitespace the evaluators should trim given expressions to
avoid hard to spot errors due to additional whitespaces.

Fixes: FLOW-278

* Commit: `c6759ae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/c6759ae37d2f812e7a10d382cc3006231dcffc6d>`_

[TASK] Correct indentation in ``EelExpressionRecognizer``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3914c09 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/3914c09f4c43864be0409a001b9405d4acc84d5b>`_

[BUGFIX] Nested object literals not supported
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The parser does not support nested object literals like::

  {bar: {foo: 'baz'}}

but only object literals containing literal values.

Fixes: FLOW-314

* Commit: `ce2b6fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/ce2b6fd6dd21dc94cc87287ffedebc64a691c653>`_

[FEATURE] Path filter for Fizzle grammar
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Until now only object identifiers or property names (both without
slashes) could be matched. This change adds support for absolute and
relative paths.

* Related: `NEOS-1366 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1366>`_
* Related: `FLOW-342 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-342>`_

* Commit: `51d93a1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/51d93a12821872e931ac840e59a26a631cb29d5a>`_

[TASK] Add I18n Eel helper to provide translation methods
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Eel helper provides 3 different entry points.

 * By calling translate, you can pass all options at once
 * By calling translate with a shorthand string (PackageKey:Source:trans-unit-id),
   you can pass all options at once
 * By calling id or value, an object is created, that allows you to
   collect these options via method chaining.

The object for collection translation options implements a __toString
method, so that there is no need for a finishing method call.

* Related: `NEOS-1362 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1362>`_
* Commit: `728177b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/728177b1d6ebd51fb6203da65a074aee90182493>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix two unknown class usages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes two places where Exception was used and did not resolve to a
class.

(cherry picked from commit bc94d1283f6696a929af5f6764d2227508cbcc9c)

* Commit: `011ffa7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/011ffa7f240ba58f4d0a84346b21aad61e7369d6>`_

[TASK] Remove I18n helper again
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This basically reverts commit 728177b1d6ebd51fb6203da65a074aee90182493.

Functionality has been moved to the existing Flow
``TranslationHelper`` to avoid duplicate helpers and
a hard dependency on Flow in EEL.

* Commit: `221b4da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/221b4da2355e3fe92278d2a9dc7640b6f7aada74>`_

[BUGFIX] Return simple string when id provided isn't a i18n label
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the I18nHelper and providing only the id argument,
it should return the string as is if it's not a valid label id.

* Related: `NEOS-1362 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1362>`_

(cherry picked from commit 26cd2f7e8c00366a8cb407ef86bf76976dfd400b)

* Commit: `f23e59d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/f23e59d0bc9b0056e22949e59669a3a2e3c297f0>`_

[BUGFIX] Only set locale in I18nHelper if not NULL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When providing a single argument (id) to the translate method
the helper tries to set the locale in the translation parameter
token to NULL, which results in an exception.

* Related: `NEOS-1362 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1362>`_

(cherry picked from commit fe411b4dcd348828fb4c89729878833afc001f1a)

* Commit: `8d7d41d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Eel.git/commit/8d7d41d3c9832e7a4c8a62203c2cb4e32405ed86>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Add new files to default .gitignore file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The default .gitignore file in Flow needs to contain the (new) rST
files that replace Readme.txt and Upgrading.txt.

* Commit: `fe573f3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fe573f3f2d1df2f1a6d2a01248b2ab4d33d34ba4>`_

[TASK] Undo requirements adjustment from CI job
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The release CI job adjusted requirements dutifully, but the result was
not as expected, because we humans missed some needed changes.

* Commit: `0de3d5c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0de3d5c8b38d1b35b4eb4904166a7b37ab53701c>`_

[TASK] Remove unintentional typo3/party requirement
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `09b2c15 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/09b2c1562bfa82a787a2283ede5887b9c6033c7c>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Flow 3.0.0-beta1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/30/

* Commit: `4f666c8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4f666c83a0555c406ce1e0ed38abfbebf7d81c8f>`_

[BUGFIX] Make proxy compilation possible without DB connection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A hotfix to make proxy compilation work when no DB connection is
possible. This used to work, but now a connection to the DB is needed
to compile Doctrine proxies.

This is probably a side effect of the Doctrine update.

Related: FLOW-219

* Commit: `61dfcec <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/61dfcec4591238e7a6ef8ce9e0e0a617b2b95fc5>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix tests that failed when TYPO3.Party is not installed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes some unit and functional tests that failed if
the ``TYPO3.Party`` package was not active.

Background:

With Flow 3.0 the Party package is no longer part of the base
distribution.
The ``AbstractParty`` type hint in ``Account::setParty()`` leads
to invalid proxy classes because the doctrine proxy builder will
throw away the type hint if it can't be resolved.
Furthermore this adjusts the unit tests for the ``Account`` class
so that the mocks don't depend on the non-existing ``AbstractParty``.

Related: FLOW-5

* Commit: `b2b7427 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b2b7427fb456de2ba8c21feed57b683db0a8f11a>`_

[TASK] Set FLOW_VERSION_BRANCH to 3.0 in Bootstrap
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1128700 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/11287001eff9144b264d7de816dfe3f45406a408>`_

[TASK] Update ``Readme`` and ``Upgrading`` instructions for 3.0 release
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3d8ff1d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3d8ff1d828d0d8bedb25f3bcad632eeadc04b190>`_

[TASK] Add missing changelogs (for 2.x)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `a696514 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a6965140d7364a6d793cf1fda6559fd7ceebcca1>`_

[TASK] Mark recent core migrations applied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit doesn't contain any changes, it simply marks recent
migrations applied so that::

  ./flow flow:core:migrate --status

won't show any open migrations for this package.

* Commit: `b098646 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b0986467c23bd02c7f7a874fe880dbd9134e21a4>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix error and standard view templates
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes several minor issues in regards of rendering of the default
``Error`` and `StandardView`` templates:

* Inline "StandardView_FloatingWindow.png" background image (it wasn't loaded
  otherwise when not in web root because of missing base tag)
* Remove references to "StandardView_Package.png" that doesn't exist
* Commit: `febbfcd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/febbfcd2d14be4aedb9639185b684f3cb006c5ee>`_

[TASK] Adjust one unit test to PHP 7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the unit tests fails under PHP 7, because the signature of
DateTime::createFromFormat() has changed.

This test adjusts that while keeping BC.

* Commit: `7ca5620 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7ca562036e38e91e747e93922932ee1ea9416efd>`_

[BUGFIX] Rename redirectToReferringRequest() to forwardToReferringRequest() in ActionController
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``ActionRequest::redirectToReferringRequest()`` actually triggers a
forward not a redirect.
This change deprecates the ``redirectToReferringRequest()`` method in
favor of a new method ``redirectToReferringRequest()`` which works
exactly like the previous method.

The deprecated method might be re-implemented to issue a "real" HTTP
redirect at some point, so you should not use it for forwards.

Fixes: FLOW-164

* Commit: `ca02b07 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ca02b071ee176fb6aacc99a0b76fe88d3ee66ee6>`_

[BUGFIX] Enable Functional Tests for PSR-4 packages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Packages with PSR-4 autoloading will not be able to work with
functional tests because two problems arise. First the
package namespace is prepended twice and second the path
contains an unnecessary backslash.

To avoid wrong amounts of backslashes we now use the path merging
utility to merge namespace parts instead of doing simple string
concatenation. Additionally a check is added for packages with
PSR-4 autoloading enabled.

Releaes: master, 1.2

* Commit: `b274b8b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b274b8bee6d5f521ef0fb3e2799877cba97de7a7>`_

[FEATURE] Reconnect the EntityManager automatically
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the persistence backend closes the connection in the background.
E.g. if the MySQL server is configured with a low wait_timeout setting
of 10-30 seconds.
The ``PersistenceManager`` now catches the exception, establishes a new
connection automatically and tries to send all entity manager changes
to the backend again.
This is really important for long running commands or tasks.

Without this central improvement in the persistence manager it's really hard
to build stable daemon workers based on Flow commands.

Resolves: FLOW-207

* Commit: `babbae5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/babbae574625851f24ad34e6f39252074c8b52f4>`_

[TASK] Improve error message in convertObjectToIdentityArray
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change gives some hint about the object in question when trying
to convert it into an identity array but failing because it is unknown
to the persistence manager.

* Commit: `39fb589 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/39fb589e73cf59f22df218ea9483935935430e60>`_

[BUGFIX] Schema validation: Accept interfaces for format "class-name"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts the ``SchemaValidator`` to accept strings referring
interfaces even if format "class-name" is required.

Background:

Currently if a string is expected to have the format "class-name", like::

 { type: string, format: class-name }

in a schema validation, only actual class names are accepted. To match
interfaces the "interface-name" format can be used.

In Flow we often use interface names in Objects.yaml in order to keep
things decoupled and flexible.
Because it's not possible to specify multiple supported formats, this
relaxes this restriction.

* Commit: `5033eac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5033eac3ed4a9982a0d91bb04f3ab5206ac0db58>`_

[FEATURE] Human friendly error message in cache:flushone
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a human friendly error message for the
cache:flushone command, if the user entered a non-existing cache
identifier.

Instead of showing an uncaught exception, the user will now be provided
with a hint::

    The cache "TYPO3.TypoScript.Content" does not exist.
    Did you mean "TYPO3_TypoScript_Content"?

* Commit: `ac8dd12 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ac8dd122686d700834273ccb6b4292f71fcc86fc>`_

[TASK] Tweak "skip detection" in two schema migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Uses skipIf() instead of a plain if with an empty return.

* Commit: `31c594e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/31c594e244f3b93b2333f366a6e242926985bf77>`_

[BUGFIX] ObjectArray should use TypeHandling::getTypeForValue
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ObjectArray used get_class() to get the type of given $value. This
change changes that to using TypeHandling::getTypeForValue.

This fixes problems where for example class names of doctrine
proxies are used instead of the entity class name.

Resolves: FLOW-206

* Commit: `3e302d2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3e302d2428d3c2c3caa5aafd4ae1a9c21c5e7f5c>`_

[BUGFIX] Support numeric identifiers in dynamic route parts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the dynamic route part handler provided by Flow (namely
``DynamicRoutePart`` and ``IdentityRoutePart``) only support objects
with string identifiers.

With this change also numeric identifiers are supported, for example
for entities with a numeric auto_increment identifier.

* Fixes: `#48887 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48887>`_
* Fixes: `#58517 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58517>`_

* Commit: `4e698ac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4e698ac3d86195f87863a2d17759871b4b9990f2>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust our Doctrine\\Service to DBAL 2.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The internals of ForeignKeyConstraint changed between DBAL 2.3 and 2.4,
so this adjusts our tweaking of internal state to fit.

Related: FLOW-198

* Commit: `92a068d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/92a068db7a6bcf5a03ec8928f9a4b73b53aca5b8>`_

[FEATURE] HHVM compatibility
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit introduces HHVM compatibility by working around some
behavioural differences between vanilla PHP and HHVM.

Fixes: FLOW-194

* Commit: `9ffa7f9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9ffa7f9095074479121db65f8f7074413ceb7d17>`_

[!!!] Decoupling of TYPO3.Party package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes the use of the ``TYPO3.Party`` package optional, hence fully
replaceable. The Account does not have a tight coupling to the
``AbstractParty`` Aggregate Root anymore, so complete customized
solutions are usable now.

This change deprecates the following methods:

* ``Account::getParty()``
* ``Account::setParty()``
* ``Security\\Context::getParty()``
* ``Security\\Context::getPartyByType()``

They still work if the party package is installed, but usage of their
methods should be replaced with custom service calls (see party package
for an example of a simple ``PartyService``).

This is a breaking change because it removes the dependency to the
``TYPO3.Party`` package. If a package makes use of that package (e.g. by
extending the ``AbstractParty`` model, an entry::

  "typo3/party": "~3.0"

in the "require" section of the ``composer.json`` file is to be added!
Besides this change adjusts the ``getParty()`` and ``setParty()``
methods of ``Account`` and rearranges the database structure; so in
cases where these changes might influence userland code, adjustments
might be necessary.

Fixes: FLOW-5

* Commit: `958c887 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/958c8876e26f86510241913a15cb9a317e860a6e>`_

[FEATURE] Account::isActive()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a convenience method to Account which allows for checking
if the account is currently active.

Also marks the Account class and its method as API.

Related: NEOS-962

* Commit: `17fc7ec <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/17fc7eccd06c37cc864875b693658f8ccd8682b6>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix broken unit test due to withoutAuthorizationChecks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The call to ``withoutAuthorizationChecks`` cannot be easily mocked,
therefor the test prevents mocking of that method and mocks only
the necessary methods.

* Commit: `57af938 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/57af9384d10a54e7b6c4d2bb75411ac940486417>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove duplicate use statement
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes a duplicate use statement for the
UnitTestCase in the AuthenticationProviderManagerTest.

Resolves: FLOW-201

* Commit: `2cd4019 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2cd40192ede6f3383b5554c772d533c55dbe7d25>`_

[FEATURE] ArrayMerge supports merging simple types and arrays
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ArrayMergeRecursiveCallback is a new method that accepts a closure
to map any non array type to an array in a custom way. This is to
allow merging in a case where either side is an array and the other not.

Related: NEOS-1004

* Commit: `c0fa4a0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c0fa4a0c9a31f66db7acecef6f29895a69969669>`_

[FEATURE] Make introduced properties known to persistence
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Properties being introduces via AOP are now correctly
picked up by Doctrine persistence. To achieve this,
the introduced property is made known to the Reflection
Class Schema and class properties as if it was a "real"
property of the particular class.

Resolves: FLOW-191

* Commit: `21c5e4d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/21c5e4d23c1c612f6441cbc118fb791d41a527ad>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Generate Value Object hash from property values
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes the Value Objects' hash generation algorithm to
use the actual properties of the Value Object, not only the
constructor arguments which lead to duplicate hashes in cases
where arguments were empty.

Furthermore the initial approach disregarded everything that
can be done within the constructor (such as trimming, calculations,
etc.).

This patch delays the generation of the value hash to just after
instantiation, where the Value Object is completely initialized.
The final object properties names and values are then hashed.

Additionally, the handling of DateTime objects has been improved.
The generated ValueHash now also includes information about the
timezone.

This *might* be breaking in the unlikely case where the initial
hash calculation leads to the same hash as the new calculation,
for different VOs. Besides, it might lead to duplicate VOs in the
database because the "same" VO can become a new hash due to the
changed hashing algorithm.

* Fixes: `#51236 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/51236>`_
* Fixes: `#37357 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37357>`_

* Commit: `2d6a0df <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2d6a0dfdadd82877c210abead884cec55805ce16>`_

[TASK] Unclutter Storage API and keep upload internal
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the ``importUploadedResource()`` method from ``Collection``
and ``WriteableStorage`` to clean up the interface.
Uploaded files are now preprocessed in the ``ResourceManager`` and then handled
via the ``importResource()`` method. Additionally the ``$filename`` argument
is removed from ``Collection::importResourceFromContent()`` and
``Storage::importResourceFromContent()`` as it can be handled in the
``ResourceManager``.

Also includes fixes for environments with activated ``open_basedir`` directive.

* Commit: `364bea1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/364bea19119579b5ba08aaa6631b44abebd1c0b1>`_

[BUGFIX] Interface object configuration has no effect
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an issue with the object configuration for interfaces which
resulted in possibly defined configuration objects in Objects.yaml to
be ignored.

Even though Flow internally uses objects in dependency injection
referenced through the interface name (for example
"PackageManagerInterface"), the object configuration for such objects
did not actually work. The error only remained undiscovered because
the object configuration of the respective implementation classes had
meaningful options set.

With this change applied, it is now possible to safely inject an
"interface object".

Resolves: FLOW-187

* Commit: `b783e6a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b783e6a2019f16f967bf9f3b0f45f4f18c128761>`_

[TASK] Fix unit tests failing on PHP 5.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some unit tests failed under PHP 5.6 because an argument to be passed by
reference was by value.
The affected tests now use ``_callRef`` in the ``AccessibleMock``.

This should solve those issues on HHVM as well.

Related: FLOW-194

* Commit: `f9cfdde <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f9cfdde8bd0f8c452fa20bf68c16dc4fb99060f0>`_

[BUGFIX] PersistentObjectConverter works with "immutable" properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The PersistentObjectConverter sets convertedChildProperties on the
object after it was created (either newly constructed or
hydrated from persistance). Creating a new object will filter
constructor arguments from the convertedChildProperties but
if the object already existed that does not happen.
This poses a problem for objects that accept arguments in the
constructor that are not settable afterwards. So those properties are
considered "immutable".
In cases where you cannot be sure if an object already exists and you
give the identity and all properties of an object with "immutable"
properties the property mapping will fail if the object already existed
as the converter tries to set the "immutable" properties as well.

With this change we check for this kind of properties and compare the
given value with the already set value. In case they are identical
we ignore the given value and proceed with the property mapping. In
case they differ there is an inconsistency in your data that we cannot
handle and so throw an exception.
This is not breaking as before in all cases an exception would be thrown.

Fixes: NEOS-937

* Commit: `a31b73e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a31b73e6e9de06606c6ab28d1a24958546fbfbbb>`_

[!!!] Do not use LoggerFactory in a static context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

First step to build a more configurable system for factory
injection to be used to replace the logger with monolog.

This is breaking in case you rely on the create method of
the LoggerFactory being static.

* Commit: `c4a9350 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c4a935054d840a49394559a128296b2812dbfca2>`_

[TASK] Don't skip core migrations for packages that are not the root of a git repository
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to If66a2dff21b239963728963f15437599a8442f72 that
reverts the new behavior of skipping packages that are not the root of
a git repository.

Related: FLOW-179

* Commit: `b3d8d37 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b3d8d37efc527ecdbd43931e01eb873a03d9a8cc>`_

[!!!] Fix order of DB migrations related to role handling
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The migrations for MySQL and PostgreSQL related to the security policy
restructuring change https://review.typo3.org/28869 had version numbers
putting them into March and May 2014 respectively. The change was merged
only in November, though. Under certain circumstances this could lead to
errors caused by the ordering of DB migrations: if a migration created
after March (or May) referenced the tables dropped with those migrations,
it would fail, because they would be gone already "since March". So the
two migrations have been renamed.

* Commit: `d1641d4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d1641d40b73f5cc716693e0fd1ae7e79abbb07d2>`_

[!!!] Add charset and collation to all MySQL migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change set adds charset and collation to create table statements
in the existing migrations. This make sure the tables are set up
correctly independent of the database default configuration.

Also migrations generated contain this information since a while,
leading to problems on migration if the database is not using the same
charset and collation.

This is breaking if you have existing tables that do not use the utf8
charset and utf8_unicode_ci collation. To solve this you need to convert
the existing tables. This can be done using the command::

  ./flow database:setcharset

Related: NEOS-800

* Commit: `c39cb1b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c39cb1bd6599453ae17f1066777ca55fe012cd84>`_

[BUGFIX] Account tagging causes Access Denied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an issue with the account session tagging feature which has
been merged minutes ago. Content security blocked the retrieval of the
Account object from the content repository. Therefore, the Account
methods must be called with temporarily disabled authorisation checks
at this stage.

See also change I2ab10b535cea0c80aaff287e65511ea581681379

* Commit: `1471e7e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1471e7e413f4e560bf221df1112fcaf1a3228aa5>`_

[FEATURE] Automatically remove sessions of deleted account
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a mechanism which automatically destroys all sessions
started by a particular account when that account is going to be
removed.

It also introduces a new method "destroySessionsByTag()" to the
Session Manager.

Resolves: FLOW-186

* Commit: `207fe88 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/207fe880c74f4f969e5376757ac445ecd4020f10>`_

[FEATURE] Tag sessions with current account
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds an account tag to all sessions started through
authentication. Through this tag it is possible to find all sessions
of a particular user (ie. account) through the session manager.

Example::

  $sessions = $sessionManager->getSessionsByTag('TYPO3-Flow-Security-Account-' . $account->getAccountIdentifier());

Resolves: FLOW-184

* Commit: `20321e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/20321e567684dd488a8670ffba35139d03da5014>`_

[FEATURE] Add command to set charset/collation on MySQL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a new command to set the character set and collation used in
MySQL::

  ./flow database:setcharset

It will convert the database configured in the settings and all tables
inside to use a default character set of utf8 and a default collation
of utf8_unicode_ci. If needed, those defaults can be overridden.

It will also convert all character type columns to that combination of
charset and collation.

Related: NEOS-800

* Commit: `81bef9d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/81bef9d9cc115b6740906d798d0f2a82ddd157fe>`_

[FEATURE] Use Doctrine ORM 2.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change updates the requested Doctrine ORM version from 2.3 to 2.4.

The FlowAnnotationDriver is adjusted to match the features found in the
AnnotationDriver of Doctrine ORM 2.4 and is cleaned by importing classes.

One notable addition is the support for the EntityListeners annotation.

Resolves: FLOW-198

* Commit: `4de12eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4de12ebdc1ca9b8059e3c3eab2391ac2b38d592c>`_

[TASK] Removed deprecated use of Inject for settings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the use of the Inject annotation for settings and instead
uses the new InjectConfiguration annotation instead.

Related: FLOW-148

* Commit: `35d9188 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/35d9188a68317448f79d510f2de6b6839e5f1eaf>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Make ignoreTags configuration more flexible
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes the ``TYPO3.Flow.reflection.ignoreTags`` setting a dictionary
to allow for adding and changing tag ignore behavior from 3rd party packages.

The previous syntax::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      reflection:
        ignoredTags: ['tag1', 'tag2']

is now deprecated in favor of::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      reflection:
        ignoredTags:
          'tag1': TRUE
          'tag2': TRUE

The old syntax is still evaluated so this change is mostly backwards compatible.
However it changes the behavior so that configuration is now *merged* rather than
*replaced*. So this is a breaking change if a package relied on this behavior. To
remove a tag from the list of ignored tags, it has to be set to ``FALSE``
explicitly now::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      reflection:
        ignoredTags:
          'someTag': FALSE

Resolves: FLOW-199

* Commit: `77360fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/77360fd93052d1ffb3fcfba1ef045c6fd61ffb12>`_

[FEATURE] Improve handling of core migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Features of this change:

* "version" flag to allow execution/fetching status of single migrations
* "verbose" flag to reduce noise if not needed
* even migrations with no changes are recorded (as empty commits)
* custom description for migrations (migration class doc comment)
* skips "TYPO3.*" packages by default (overridden when specifying the
  --package-key argument)
* Refactor scripts to ease maintenance

Resolves: FLOW-179

* Commit: `f4f51ed <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f4f51ed47238aaf6beab5d6805a921e1f5dbb306>`_

[!!!] Exclude Non-Flow packages from object management by default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change all packages, that are not of one of the "typo3-flow-\*"
composer types, are excluded from object management by default.

Previously the had to be excluded explicitly with the
``TYPO3.Flow.object.includeClasses`` setting.

To activate object management for Non-Flow packages, the newly introduced
setting ``TYPO3.Flow.object.includeClasses`` can be used. It works in
the same way as ``excludeClasses``, apart from not allowing wildcards for
the package.

This is a breaking change in case proxy building for non-flow packages
was expected. In these cases packages have to be included explicitly now::

 TYPO3:
   Flow:
     object:
       includeClasses:
         'non.flow.package' : ['.*']

To exclude classes from Flow packages a non-matching or empty expression
can be specified::

 TYPO3:
   Flow:
     object:
       includeClasses:
         'Some.Flow.Package' : []

The ``excludeClasses`` setting is deprecated but still evaluated.

Resolves: FLOW-103

* Commit: `2d58305 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2d5830538c67abb39c316081abe4bc2f21e77c6d>`_

[FEATURE] The Query Object Model supports distinct queries
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changeset introduces the methods getDistinct and setDistinct on
the Query object to allow queries to explicitly return only distinct
result sets, which might be needed for join queries which happen
implicitly in subproperty queries, e.g.
property.subProperty.foo IN (1,2,3)

Doctrine automatically hydrates only distinct entities on result sets,
but that happens only after a limit clause on the query. This leads to
wrong query results with limit clauses, with less entities than
distinct existing entities in the database. A test is provided that shows
the behaviour.

Resolves: FLOW-21

* Commit: `197e914 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/197e914a6269d0251177df2830c01225f04ca8cf>`_

[TASK] Explain type attribute for InjectConfiguration annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fills a small gap in the documentation for the new configuration
injection mechanism.

Related: FLOW-148

* Commit: `86f9b49 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/86f9b4996ce954dfcf6b2bd26e210754238b049f>`_

[FEATURE] Support for variables in routing default values
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently placeholders are only supported in ``name`` and
``uriPattern``.

This adds support for ``default`` values allowing for better reusability
of similar routes. For example a main ``Routes.yaml`` with::

  -
    name: 'CRUD - product'
    uriPattern: '<CRUDSubroutes>'
    subRoutes:
      'CRUDSubroutes':
        package: 'Acme.Package'
        suffix:  'Crud'
        variables:
          'resourceName': 'product'

And the corresponding sub routes ``Routes.Crud.yaml`` with::

  -
    name: '<resourceName> - index'
    uriPattern: '<resourceName>s'
    defaults:
      '@controller': '<resourceName>'
      '@action': 'index'
    httpMethods: ['GET']

  -
    name: '<resourceName> - create'
    uriPattern: '<resourceName>s'
    defaults:
      '@controller': '<resourceName>'
      '@action': 'create'
    httpMethods: ['POST']

  -
    name: '<resourceName> - show'
    uriPattern: '<resourceName>s/{<resourceName>}'
    defaults:
      '@controller': '<resourceName>'
      '@action': 'show'
    httpMethods: ['GET']

Resolves: FLOW-76

* Commit: `5781e05 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5781e053c2f12cee6d7ab89b1717bf4c8cef9684>`_

[BUGFIX] Support persisting cloned related entities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cloning entities which are fetched as Doctrine proxy leads to an fatal
error in PersistenceManager. This patch fixes that behaviour and provides
a functional test for the use case.

* Commit: `552d6eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/552d6eb96efaac0a01b3e26cd295f83caf8afabf>`_

[FEATURE] JsonView accepts encoding options
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

json_encode supports multiple bitmask options.
see: http://www.php.net/manual/en/json.constants.php

These options are supported with this commit
using the supported options of AbstractView

Usage Example:
$this->view->setOption('jsonEncodingOptions', JSON_FORCE_OBJECT | JSON_NUMERIC_CHECK);

Resolves: FLOW-157

* Commit: `8dbeab5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8dbeab5ef6e3a711f29e3d76e866d57cc21daae1>`_

[FEATURE] Embedded Development Web Server
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By using ./flow server:run, a quick-and-dirty development server
is started; so no web server configuration is needed anymore.

Resolves: FLOW-169

* Commit: `a06f8ea <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a06f8eae8b305c2305885f9c2f2d26c481a977bd>`_

[FEATURE] Allow custom handling of propertyMapping errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously if an entity wasn't found during property mapping an
exception was thrown before the action was invoked making it
difficult to change the default behavior of showing a 404 error.

This change adjusts the ``PersistentObjectConverter`` to return
a ``TargetNotFoundError`` in that case instead of throwing an
exception. It also extends the ``\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Error\\Result``
class by a method ``getFlattenedErrorsOfType()`` that allows to
retrieve all errors implementing a given class or interface.

The default ``errorAction`` of the ``ActionController`` now
checks the validation result for TargetNotFoundErrors and throws
an exception if that's the case. But this behavior can now be
changed by overriding ``handleTargetNotFoundError()``::

  protected function handleTargetNotFoundError() {
    try {
      parent::handleTargetNotFoundError();
    } catch (TargetNotFoundException $exception) {
      // custom behavior (e.g. redirect to some action)
    }
  }

Resolves: FLOW-197

* Commit: `c834eae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c834eaed1dff0983c7ebc565c4e50772e7e70c6a>`_

[FEATURE] ObjectConfiguration gets name from annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently, an object configuration's property's class must
explicitly configured with its name, even if the name is
implied by the annotation of the intended property.

This change falls back to that annotated class name, if
the name is not explicitly mentioned. For example, this
configuration now will work::

 'Acme\\Acme\\SomeClass':
   properties:
     'someProperty':
       object:
          # the type of 'someProperty' will be inferred from the var annotation now
          # previously it had to be specified via `name`
         arguments:
           1:
             value: 'SomeConstructorArgument'

…as long as the mentioned property ``someProperty`` has a
proper ``@var`` annotation revealing the class name.

* Resolves: `#44157 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/44157>`_
* Commit: `f0bde21 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f0bde21d8d35b4751e22ad4eb1a087069f9c922b>`_

[BUGFIX] Reset ``SecurityContextHash`` on logout
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts ``AuthenticationProviderManager::logout()`` to reset the
``ContextHash`` of the ``Security\\Context`` whenever an account is
logged out in order to prevent invalid caching entries.

Related: NEOS-433

* Commit: `20c5da3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/20c5da33f93ce9eddab33e3565107f5272d8fd2e>`_

[TASK] Respect "SecurityContextHash" in doctrine caches
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``Doctrine\\CacheAdapter`` to include the current
``SecurityContextHash`` whenever writing cache entries in order to
prevent protected entities to be available to unauthorized users.

Related: NEOS-433

* Commit: `3f085a5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3f085a54b743036d8be7efa8f4ff859c2d7ed210>`_

[BUGFIX] Start session when fetching a CSRF token
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a ``@Flow\\Session(autoStart=true)`` annotation to the
method ``Security\\Context::getCsrfProtectionToken()``.

Background:

Currently ``CSRF`` tokens are bound to a session. Thus fetching a token
without starting a session makes no sense because the token will be
invalid on the next request.

In the long run we might be able to create "stateless" CSRF tokens that
don't require a session.

Related: FLOW-130

Depends: I896f6a722445deede1f0a656ea73db04f0d2e978

* Commit: `408919f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/408919f486ffd78b0f8e38dd00e8e3ddd5601d0d>`_

[BUGFIX] Enforce CSRF token for sub requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change dispatching of requests is intercepted *recursively*
so that a valid CSRF token is enforced for sub requests, too.
Previously the token was only enforced on the main ActionRequest.

Background:

Previously the CSRF token was enforced via an AOP aspect. But one aspect
can only be executed once at a time. So calls of
``Dispatcher::dispatch()`` that are invoked during the execution of the
same method (which is the case for plugin or widget sub requests)
weren't intercepted by the aspect.

This change removes the aspect in favor of a hard coded check in the
Dispatcher class.

Related: FLOW-130

* Commit: `2497220 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2497220cf19b8c2c90fada04a6b3cdcb444da8a9>`_

[FEATURE] Add HTTP-version and start-line support to Http\\Message
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds support for the HTTP-version to HTTP Messages like
Request and Response; i.e. it is stored and accessible.

As a consequence, convenient getter methods for the so-called
"Start-Line" (RFC 2616, section 4 HTTP Message) is added,
being either the "Request-Line" or the "Status-Line" depending
on the Message implementation (being a Request or a Response).
See RFC 2616, sections 5.1 and 6.1 accordingly.

Besides, it makes Http\\Message an abstract class because
an HTTP message *must* be a Request or a Response and cannot
be a Message itself.

* Commit: `485ab04 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/485ab04e311dce03b637bc70c08a2a16c8c0f632>`_

[TASK] Embedded Entities in ObjectArray are lazy loaded
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ObjectArray would fetch doctrine entities one by one at the time
the main entity was hydrated, now we create a lazy loading proxy
instead. This should have no negative effects, if all embedded
objects are used the same amount of queries will happen, but if none
of the embedded objects is needed, then they won't be fetched from
persistence at all.

* Commit: `b172f7e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b172f7e620236cb354b688e57649b6fc4460e689>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix typo in PHPDoc for method getParameters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes a typo in the PHPDoc for the method
getParameters in file TYPO3\\Flow\\Reflection\\MethodReflection

* Commit: `c777853 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c7778536b6c92d3daed6bc4a48c59cc9fe8de0ec>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix typo in PHPDoc for method createSchema
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes a typo in the PHPDoc for the method
createSchema in file TYPO3\\Flow\\Persistence\\Doctrine\\Service

* Commit: `d3cdb41 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d3cdb41a9413aa7e72718d6f46f1d578fb6d81ab>`_

[TASK] Suggest ext-curl in composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The curl PHP extension is used in the HTTP client CurlEngine and thus
this change marks it as suggested in the composer manifest.

* Commit: `f947e9d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f947e9dc7e6e456377e0373c9f5823615afae23f>`_

[TASK] Remove use of deprecated getResourcePointer
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ArrayConverter still referenced the deprecated method
getResourcePointer() in the code used to export file data contained
in Resource objects.

* Commit: `ade3fa0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ade3fa0339eee8aad9c35a1ead26a096b6df09ff>`_

[!!!] Remove obsolete "security.enable" Setting
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes the `TYPO3.Flow.security.enable` and all mentions
and usages of it.

Background:

This setting was initially intended for performance reasons (For
applications without security features) and in order to disable
security for (functional) tests.
For the latter we use a different approach since a while and the
performance hit of security features is also neglect-able since
Flow pre-compiles classes (at least if there is no complex policy
configured).
Besides the flag was never evaluated consistently.

Resolves: FLOW-181
Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `1e0e651 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1e0e65119eaaa4ef903599822954db104137b6ea>`_

[BUGFIX] Properly support doctrine's indexBy attribute
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Doctrine allows an indexBy attribute at OneToMany and ManyToMany
relations. The current FlowAnnotationDriver removes this attribute.
This patch passes it forward again.

Functional tests are included.

* Related: `#44740 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/44740>`_
* Commit: `4d0f1da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4d0f1daa462d38f3b5f21fc2879b81b6ac87a603>`_

[TASK] Use UTF-8 safe parse_url in Flow
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds parse_url() to the Unicode\\Functions class and makes use of it
throughout Flow.

See https://bugs.php.net/52923 for some background.

* Commit: `f63915c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f63915c998916896a12efe711998f382fd313b73>`_

[TASK] Make i18n locale fallback rule handling a bit more robust
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the locale fallback rule for the i18n framework is given without order an
exception is thrown. A missing strict flag on the fallback rule is set to the
default (FALSE) as implied by the documentation.

* Commit: `2fffc93 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2fffc93f8fc2a9355c6ed4411902880efd27242d>`_

[TASK] Remove deprecated classes and methods
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes everything marked deprecated in 2.0 and before.
Actually we should also remove everything that was deprecated
from 2.1 but as we were so lenient with the 2.0 things, I left
that alone for now.

* Commit: `ae22ca6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ae22ca6cb2dc4609ae6c0aed64cbddb4a0cdd301>`_

[BUGFIX] Constraint with "IN" and empty collection should work
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Entity constraints using "IN" where the argument resulted in an
empty array would generate a query that contained an empty ``IN()``
operation. This breaks at least in MySQL. The only way to test for
NULL is a IS NULL constraint. This change takes care of that.
The changed test exposed the issue.

* Commit: `7869041 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/78690419b1c52d64ceea41343b92ce46c54f9cbe>`_

[TASK] Ignore unknown Roles in Account->hasRole()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As a followup to the change I10968698163d70b9ea387b098eb3bb46ed09c98f
this addresses the concern about hasRole() being inconsistent now.

* Commit: `02ce8f8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/02ce8f84f1f36fb75c4a8290388b67733b8f33d6>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] SessionManagerInterface and SessionInterface are incomplete
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds functions which have been around for some time now
in Session and SessionManager to their respective interfaces.

TransientSession now also implements these previously missing methods.

This patch is breaking in the unlikely case that you implemented your
own Session or SessionManager implementation and forgot to implement the
methods mentioned in the classes but not yet mentioned in the interfaces.

* Commit: `0c8ed7d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0c8ed7daed836e80b36b951d61fbd24295f7f24c>`_

[TASK] Ignore invalid roles in Account->getRoles()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a safeguard which ignores role identifiers which are
possibly still stored with an account, but refer to roles which do not
exist anymore, or at the moment. Previously Account->getRoles() would
throw an exception when it stumbled over a non existing role.

* Commit: `63d04f7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/63d04f762613e55cabbd707a329a0d50415dd480>`_

[TASK] Fix warnings during reStructuredText rendering
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This tweaks rst files to get rid of some warnings that are emitted
during documentation rendering.

* Commit: `df552f7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/df552f71642b63862400e7c3b8acdd7ffeb93f15>`_

[TASK] Remove leftover table
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes the typo3_flow_resource_publishing_abstractpublishingconfiguration
table that should not be present.

Resolves: FLOW-185

* Commit: `eb93c7b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/eb93c7b584d537419431131bab7535fdb416335a>`_

[TASK] Improve CSRF log entries
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change tweaks the log/exception messages of the
``CsrfProtection`` RequestPattern.

It also adjusts the behavior to log if

* CSRF enforcement was skipped due to a "skipcsrfprotection" annotation
* CSRF token was successfully verified

Related: FLOW-130

* Commit: `849f11e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/849f11e9271b44d90264f5e1b1a3d808a6630e75>`_

[TASK] Remove inaccessible code from ArrayConverter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Remove code that is currently inaccessible, because the constant
STRING_FORMAT_SERIALIZED is not defined in the class.

Unserializing from untrusted sources should not be done anyway
so we remove this possibility completely instead of adding the constant.

A use case which would require an unserialize for array conversion is complex
enough to be handled in a dedicated type converter class which exactly fits the use case
instead of providing a potentially insecure shortcut for that (unserialize) in the framework.

* Commit: `d52449e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d52449e2e101f783849bec48489a6a93ccd0ce87>`_

[TASK] Adjust Policy schema to new format
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Restructure policy component to new
Policy.yaml format" change (I84e188e89a05ec0dd1f9ee96fe312dac81806759)
adjusting the schema according to the new syntax.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `112cabc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/112cabc143c88ee57f183a5fbb2ca53d730aa6fd>`_

[TASK] Introduce privilege subjects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a privilege subject interface
and a method implementation to pass method invocations
as subject to the method privilege implementation.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `8be8c94 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8be8c94cfa2d8269a073b63a57e3419c787a5218>`_

[TASK] Tweak error handling in doctrine:migrationversion
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of an uncaught exception, two expected error states are now
handled in a more friendly way.

* Commit: `0079049 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0079049a017df7a9ef74586fdf7137470a487d4e>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to new Resource Management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.persistence.schema.yaml`` according to the
"Multi-Storage / Multi-Target Resource Management" feature introduced
with Ia2b47b4070a2dfabf4833bf1f0f3967ba3b032a7.

Besides this removes an obsolete "detectPackageResourceChanges" setting.

Fixes: FLOW-129

* Commit: `9f2e420 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9f2e4209cca9380973d4860ab220aa85d8d75b53>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to "Add Configuration for Doctrine Filters"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.persistence.schema.yaml`` according to the
"Add Configuration for Doctrine Filters" change introduced with
If8582f8d138a7e46b8b77fc3c4b83b78bfc93bba.

* Commit: `913cbcb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/913cbcb4c4a539d12a8ea0625471a78f7ea6da5a>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Correct object modification exception trigger
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The PersistentObjectConverter throws an exception if there are
properties to be set on the object and modification was not allowed
in the PropertyMappingConfiguration.
The decision if there are properties to be set was done based on the
amount of entries in the ``$source`` array, but in fact only the
``$convertedChildProperties`` are set to the model, so the check
should check if there is anything in that array.

That means you can have any amount of arbitrary data in your data
source as long as it is not converted to an actual child property.
Which is determined by the ``getSourceChildPropertiesToBeConverted``
method of the converter.

This is breaking if you rely on the fact that the exception is thrown
if you have arbitrary data in $source even though that data would
never have been set to your model.

* Commit: `525a894 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/525a8942af2866966c8b86c6995734b7885e451c>`_

[BUGFIX] Package meta data do not contain package type.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When loading packages using the PackageManager class, the associated
MetaData instance is not initialized with the package type.

* Commit: `429cf11 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/429cf116ad0295ec467d879c94f412a0eb39f6e6>`_

[TASK] Use unicode-safe pathinfo function and use it where necessary
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``pathinfo()`` function is not unicode-friendly
if setlocale is not set. It's sufficient to set it
to any UTF-8 locale to correctly handle unicode strings.
This change temporarily sets locale to 'en_US.UTF-8'
and then restores original locale.
It's not necessary to use this function in cases,
where only file extension is determined, as it's
hard to imagine a unicode file extension.

Related: FLOW-101

* Commit: `9921f3c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9921f3c057872b8fb13fd176208b57ab31774c0b>`_

[BUGFIX] Respect correct property filling priority in ObjectConverter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The order preference to try to set a property
via constructor, via setter and via public property
is now respected correctly by the
``ObjectConverter::getTypeOfChildProperty()`` method.
That method used to check the setter annotation in the
first place, then the constructor annotation in the second
place, and failed when a property was only settable through
its public nature since that case was not backed at all.

The checking/setting priority now follows the one used by
``ObjectAccess``, so it is Constructor > Setter > Field.

Fixes: FLOW-33

* Commit: `8c4fdc4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8c4fdc4c22f30139f0f8daba82c886f9a24a9f7f>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Introduce InjectConfiguration Annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a new ``InjectConfiguration`` annotation that can be used to
easily inject settings or other configuration types to classes.

Example::

    /**
     * @var string
     * @Flow\\InjectConfiguration("my.setting")
     */
     protected $mySetting;

    /**
     * @var string
     * @Flow\\InjectConfiguration(package="TYPO3.Flow", path="core.phpBinaryPathAndFilename")
     */
    protected $phpBinary;

    /**
     * @var array
     * @Flow\\InjectConfiguration(type="Views")
     */
    protected $viewsConfiguration;

This change is marked breaking because it deprecates setting injection
via the ``Inject`` annotation (introduced with
Id84d087307d348ecd3079fc6097df193ebecb08a).

It also reverts support for the ``InjectSettings`` annotation that has
been introduced with Iaec291e40ffd352de9810c4e72027c455bf8c566 (but was
never part of a release).

Related: FLOW-148

* Commit: `5383438 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5383438d735cb508fe55c8450501e54a22d47652>`_

[BUGFIX] AOP works with __clone call on parent objects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If, for example, you extend an entity which implements __clone
the AOP Framework breaks with an warning in development mode,
that it cannot access Flow_Aop_Proxy_targetMethodsAndGroupedAdvices.

Solution is to check  if the private
Flow_Aop_Proxy_targetMethodsAndGroupedAdvices property is
accessible and otherwise skipping the Advice call.

* Related: `#37571 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/37571>`_
* Commit: `c6e671c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c6e671cf64c8c764021e3519e5dcc40d359dc001>`_

[BUGFIX] Log exceptions recursively in ``SystemLogger::logException()``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change "post mortem" information about the complete exception
chain is logged, and not only for the outer exception.

This also adds some cosmetic and non-functional cleanups in order to
increase readability and IDE support:

* Import FQN where applicable
* Remove unused import statements

Fixes: FLOW-159

* Commit: `38602eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/38602eb9d09ee6ad87a74352eadfaa17312d547c>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust CommandLine documentation to refactored console output
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the ``CommandLine`` section of the documentation to
changes introduced with Ia77c62b41fb598bdfb7b81c530494ba819a590d1.

* Related: `#49016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49016>`_
* Commit: `27c9de8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/27c9de835b899d27399af72f5d339952d5ec7060>`_

[TASK] Update documentation for the new resource management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: FLOW-114

* Commit: `2c940da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2c940da56be2b6379cdbafe8222ed63097a00f4f>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to "Add a generic lock class"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.utility.schema.yaml`` according to the
"Add a generic lock class" change introduced with
Ib5cacb4e8a0784814bd863ae19b591acd540e4ef

Besides this puts the lockStrategyClassName setting in quotes as
suggested in the original change.

* Commit: `f543c7b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f543c7bb2df6989c5db14d57d68defe203c1b7f0>`_

[BUGFIX] Disable security for CLI requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently it's not possible to invoke methods that are covered by a
policy via CLI because the security context is not yet initialized
leading to a ``The security Context cannot be initialized yet``
exception.

With this change all authorization checks are disabled for command
controllers.

Fixes: #FLOW-163

* Commit: `c4d33d8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c4d33d8220b8dbaaabc7eb78b318ae1a8f3e8831>`_

[TASK] Cosmetic cleanup in CLI and bootstrap classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a non-functional change that incorporates following
adjustments in order to increase readability and IDE support:

* Replace magic strings "Runtime" and "Compiletime" by constants
* Import FQN where applicable
* Remove redundant doc comments
* Inline @var annotations where applicable

* Commit: `294a2a6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/294a2a676f81f643860cda217e62f86340285c26>`_

[FEATURE] Automatically move generated migration to package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds some interaction to the ``doctrine:migrationgenerate``
command allowing to move generated doctrine migrations to the
specified package.

Example output::

  Do you want to move the migration to one of these Packages?
    [0 ] Don't Move
    [1 ] TYPO3.Fluid
    [2 ] TYPO3.Eel
    [3 ] TYPO3.Flow
    [4 ] TYPO3.Party
    ...

* Related: `#49016 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49016>`_
* Commit: `122c134 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/122c134f2999c5a90ed98e5398cc30a7518e44a8>`_

[TASK] Cleanup PersistentObjectConverter and tweak InvalidSourceException
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is basically a cosmetic change to the ``PersistentObjectConverter``
and corresponding unit test which incorporates following non-functional
changes:

* Import FQN for better readability
* Adjust @throws, @param and @return annotations for better IDE support

Additionally this adjusts the exception message of the
``InvalidSourceException`` in ``fetchObjectFromPersistence()`` to
prevent fatal errors when the identity is of an invalid type and adds a
corresponding test.

* Commit: `9e008e9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9e008e9679e37bedc322e57174c167670d5f03f3>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix duplicate keys in Testing/Settings.yaml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1323168 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/13231689414be96ca5b8484c213dd3861d8bc44f>`_

[BUGFIX] Package keys with different case should not be allowed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Composer packages could change their Flow package key case, the package
manager needs to prevent registering the same package twice.

Fixes: FLOW-156

* Commit: `6fb8e4a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6fb8e4ae0b6faf47a781bd8d47c8b896929d82e2>`_

[BUGFIX] Properly resolve case of Subpackage Key in ActionRequest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``ActionRequest::getControllerSubpackageKey()`` failed to return the
correctly cased subpackage key.
This is not the case for the other ``getController*()`` getters and
can lead to issues (e.g. "Template could not be loaded" Fluid
exceptions on case-sensitive file systems.

This change adjusts the ``getControllerSubpackageKey()`` method to
``getControllerName()`` which already uses the correctly cased
controllerObjectName to extract the controller name.

Fixes: FLOW-126

* Commit: `d4f878e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d4f878e97e660b238b2192b37580091ce27c114d>`_

[BUGFIX] Documentation: Correct pagination widget example
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The example code for a fluid widgets uses a
not working syntax of the pagination widget.

Move the configuration for "itemsPerPage" into
the correct attribute.

Fixes: FLOW-100

* Commit: `3c271dc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3c271dccf3341b0601497a3c066773c4f03b8877>`_

[FEATURE] Filesize utility functions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds two new convenient functions to ``Utility\\Files`` that allow
for converting a number of bytes to a human-readable representation vice
versa.

Usage::

  \\TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Files::bytesToSizeString(1073741823);
  \\TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Files::sizeStringToBytes('1024M');

Related: NEOS-842

* Commit: `db800d7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/db800d7c837e9d901922a8ddd8bd0c0d2ce3551f>`_

[FEATURE] Allow to send custom request headers automatically
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Browser provides a method to set headers to be sent with every
request now::

  $browser->addAutomaticRequestHeader('Accept-Language', 'lv');

Removal of a previously added header is possible with::

  $browser->removeAutomaticRequestHeader('Accept-Language');

* Commit: `fe450cf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fe450cff96d344ffbed94d9995d60690791a2c92>`_

[BUGFIX] Get rid of TYPO3CR dependency in integration tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change extracts the trait inclusion in a package specific
behat helper class and not directly into the command controller.
By this, every package can provide the traits needed by its tests
based on this helper class.

Fixes: FLOW-134

* Commit: `97afd2d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/97afd2d6e094b91b6ae0b4f9179fbb94f6eb8d21>`_

[FEATURE] Add PackageKeys as namespaces to TemplateParser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change registers a Fluid ViewHelper namespace for every
active package.

This means, that you can call any package viewHelper without
declaring a namespace like this::

  <acme.somepackage:someViewHelper />

Depends: Ie4e40713ec7b2a31464ddd633458d757d55d52e7

Related: FLOW-151

* Commit: `e2064e8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e2064e8ada03ef184a23d10615a1249292a438b9>`_

[!!!] Introduce InjectSettings Annotation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change mainly cleans up injection code by moving reading of
injection annotations to the ConfigurationBuilder from the
ProxyClassBuilder, so that the ProxyClassBuilder again mostly works
based off the given configuration.

Additionally property injection was moved to a separate annotation
that now allows injection of whole package settings from a separate
package with the following syntax::

  @Flow\\InjectSettings(package="TYPO3.Party")

will inject all settings for the package ``TYPO3.Party``.

Just using the annotation like this::

  @Flow\\InjectSettings

will inject all settings for the package in which the class with the
annotation is in.

Giving a specific setting path is also possible, with or without
the package. So this::

  @Flow\\InjectSettings(package="TYPO3.Flow", path="i18n.defaultLocale")

Will inject the Setting TYPO3.Flow.i18n.defaultLocale regardless
in which class the annotation was used.

This change is marked breaking as injection of settings via
the ``Inject`` annotation is from now on deprecated and will be
removed in three versions.

Resolves: FLOW-148

* Commit: `c7cc9b6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c7cc9b6d8831600df574daed852df42061afdf9f>`_

[TASK] Tweak Quickstart tutorial
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the Quickstart to be in sync with recent Flow changes.

Related: FLOW-139

* Commit: `dbf7db5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/dbf7db549689a59cdeeef90a43574e9a136e752e>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw exception when trying to reflect a non-existing class
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously the ``ReflectionService`` ignored classes that couldn't be
loaded. It just logged an error and marked the respective class
"unconfigurable".
This leads to weird side effects that are hard to track down.

With this change an exception is thrown during compile time whenever
a class is being reflected that couldn't be loaded.

If a class or file should be skipped during reflection, the
``excludeClasses`` can be used::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      object:
        excludeClasses:
          'Some.PackageKey': ['Some\\\\Class\\\\Name']

Fixes: FLOW-128

* Commit: `4f40670 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4f406702cecd77b2ab940f96e33b2d77ffddd9e4>`_

[TASK] Explain "inconsistent naming" of classes and interfaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the wonderful explanation the reasons for our naming of
classes and interfaces that Jacob Floyd sent to the mailing list to the
CGL appendix.

* Commit: `5d271a0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5d271a03b1ae9aebe61eafc105e183c75653e2ee>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust settings schema to "HTTP components for handling requests"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``TYPO3.Flow.http.schema.yaml`` according to the
"HTTP Components" feature introduced with
I1e2491dba5adc125a7b85a574c9b51c9ae2ff18f

Fixes: FLOW-35
* Related: `#52064 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52064>`_
* Commit: `b6e8816 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b6e88166391febd2e3702f04751da44ece9fb536>`_

[BUGFIX] PHP Notice when multiple namespace roots are set
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``Package`` class triggers a PHP Notice when a composer manifest
contains several search paths for the same prefix (see [1])::

    {
      "autoload": {
        "psr-0": {
          "Foo\\\\": ["src/", "tests/"]
        }
      }
    }

This commit changes the behaviour to using the first path as class
path when multiple paths are defined.

[1] https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#psr-0

Resolves: FLOW-94

* Commit: `b196453 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b196453b196d8f581439dfdfb21c1b4a3c3c3480>`_

[BUGFIX] Make sure functional tests have default resource setup
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Duplicates the default resource configuration to the testing
context to make sure that functional tests have a default
environment to run in. Additionally sets the publishing target
to a special testing path to avoid problems of resource removal.

* Commit: `d7d32c9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d7d32c9106eafdeb30fec2a16c75ea52d1a4a7de>`_

[BUGFIX] Support custom factories for constructor argument injection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It should be possible to use custom factories (``factoryObjectName``)
for constructor injection (``arguments``) the same way as they
can be used for property injection.

Resolves: FLOW-135

* Commit: `e60ce0c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e60ce0cba4fb528de3dec5ecf9e392078b952f23>`_

[TASK] Array converter should use streams to copy resource files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `6f1da6e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6f1da6e0dbf213d2b2c0f559d74c5438e727ce55>`_

[FEATURE] Collection and object to array converters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds two TypeConverters to convert objects to arrays and
Doctrine Collections to arrays.

* Commit: `0576ad6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0576ad6bd5d1f60fd6a2cd375b9ef5db5f694726>`_

[TASK] Adjust documentation to PHP 5.5
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust version requirements and remove magic quotes hint.

Related: FLOW-124

* Commit: `7a212cc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7a212ccf72d2933e544834dd8c64188673acf80d>`_

[BUGFIX] Use bin2hex in ObjectArray when using PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ObjectArray type still uses serialize() to convert to the database
value, thus producing data that cannot be used as is for a BYTEA column.

With this change, the serialized string is run through bin2hex() when
writing to the database and through hex2bin on the way back, if the
system runs on PostgreSQL.

Fixes: FLOW-132

* Commit: `9c0df0d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9c0df0db3fb77b4bda39a891495f39a0b0383827>`_

[FEATURE] Command for detecting and cleaning up broken resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a new command "resource:clean" which allows for detecting
resources which have no corresponding data anymore. It also resolves
related Asset objects from the TYPO3.Media package (if installed) and,
if requested, removes all broken resources including their assets from
the database.

Resolves: FLOW-131

* Commit: `82939e0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/82939e0b1de34c386ff295b74ae6a05e1c14575a>`_

[TASK] Throw more meaningful exception if resource could not be published
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This throws a more meaningful exception if a resource as part of a
collection to be published had no accesible data (no source stream).

* Commit: `afed2e4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/afed2e46b2f66b23f73161e5695e57483d46dde1>`_

[FEATURE] ResourceTypeConverter allows setting of collection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds PropertyMappingConfiguration options for the
ResourceTypeConverter to directly set the used collection via
``CONFIGURATION_COLLECTION_NAME`` or alternatively set it via
``__collectionName`` in the ``$source``.

Resolves: NEOS-787

* Commit: `dc0b6ef <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/dc0b6ef762467398069a61d65278d7c91d8cd154>`_

[BUGFIX] Regression in core migration 20141113121400
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In change I30de07c0bb5d322f1b8aa64d1cc890ebbe4c9ab9 we modified the
core migration Version20141113121400. However, "$this" is still not
allowed in a use() statement, also not in PHP 5.5.

Instead, $this is available in anonymous functions without any use
statement.

Related: FLOW-124

* Commit: `45523d8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/45523d8eb75191478ae07e039cbdbea6c2e263be>`_

[BUGFIX] "Session Not Started" exception
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The sole existence of the method Resource->__destruct() leads Doctrine
to proxy that method and run __load() before __destruct(), which in turn
will triger the SQL protection in Flow Security, which will then discover
that a possibly previously existing session has been half-destroyed
already.

So we go the safe way and use Flow's shutdown mechanism instead.

Resolves: FLOW-121

* Commit: `5affe9b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5affe9b4c7d9a206bf0b71b2002a23a0d8f9e790>`_

[TASK] Better way to close resource source stream
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using RackspaceCloudFiles I experienced "too many open files" errors.
This led me to change the point where one should close a resource
stream: instead of doing it in publishFile() I put the fclose() closer
to the getStream() call so you can actually see when the stream has been
fetched and when it has been closed.

Resolves: FLOW-122

* Commit: `66c6856 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/66c685661e9977cfbf74fc0520b2d3534908c9d7>`_

[FEATURE] Pointcut constraints on annotation properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change it is possible to add constraints on annotation
property values to the ``classAnnotatedWith`` and ``methodAnnotatedWith``
pointcut filters.

The following notation becomes valid then::

  methodAnnotatedWith(TYPO3\\Flow\\Annotations\\Session(autoStart == TRUE))

* Commit: `32b6119 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/32b611997d0f149ec8f782d59e19e203bb58fbf6>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent iteration over empty collection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This shouldn't make a difference but with the current way
properties are serialized in the TYPO3CR it can happen that
you have ArrayCollections which do contain a NULL value instead
of an array. This will break on the next serialization and this
prevents it.

* Commit: `fae9d8f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fae9d8f2cf0b500b12f680932dc21acb45cccf49>`_

[TASK] Remove unused flag from BaseTestCase
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

That flag has been deprecated sine PHPUnit 3.3, so it is time to say
goodbye.

* Commit: `8fc40d7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8fc40d74e7263d5250724fdddad68cd55dea6414>`_

[FEATURE] Allow privilege evaluation for arbitrary roles
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds two methods ``isGrantedForRoles()`` and
``isPrivilegeTargetGrantedForRoles()`` to the
``PrivilegeManagerInterface`` and its default implementation.

This allows to test privileges for roles independently from the
currently authenticated account.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `cc013cf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/cc013cf1ccb50601aa07f98389bd4924b9d87d59>`_

[FEATURE] Respect implementation of JsonSerializable interface
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The JsonView will call jsonSerialize() in transformValue()
for objects implementing the JsonSerializable interface. This is useful
if a domain model or data transfer object needs custom serialization
logic for JSON.

* Resolves: `#54092 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54092>`_
* Commit: `ab32c30 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ab32c30616b033657d4804eec5403164b0d13ba9>`_

[TASK] Fix duplicate exception codes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These exception codes were copied from the Eel package, now they are
timestamps fresh off the press.

* Commit: `d58e4f1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d58e4f1be21918c9e232e831e9870f5a3e2bb39c>`_

[TASK] Add "suggest" and "conflict" dependencies to newly created composer manifests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Newly created composer manifests only contained the "require" dependencies
of the package meta data. With this change also suggested and conflicting
dependencies are added.

Related: NEOS-785

* Commit: `4f2ec90 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4f2ec908b13140240a4fe7256b8eb6f8dceaf524>`_

[TASK] Adjust to PHP 5.5 requirement, remove checks, fix date.timezone
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The constant for the minimum PHP version has been raised to PHP 5.5.0 and some
code that existed purely for backwards compatibility with older PHP versions
has been removed.

This change removes a few checks for installed PHP extensions or PHP maximum
versions which are still from the PHP 6 era and are no longer necessary. It
also removes the dependency on ext-session (since we don't use it anyway) but
declares the dependency to ext-mbstring (since we do use that one).

We also don't set unicode related ini values which were only supported by
PHP 6. The check for the magic quotes setting is also now gone.

And finally, we don't require date.timezone to be set. Still, PHP does require
date.timezone to be set as soon as you are using date functions. In order to
still have a smooth setup experience we turn a blind eye on this setting and
simply configure the timezone to UTC if it hasn't been configured by the lazy
server admin.

Resolves: FLOW-124

* Commit: `5ca596b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5ca596bf3319428086c3b38ba1ff522c08e5bd00>`_

[TASK] Make "renderingGroup" available to custom exception handlers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts the exception handling slightly to make the
resolved "renderingGroup" available to custom exception handlers.

Besides, this sets the Fluid StandaloneView request package to
"TYPO3.Flow" for depending ViewHelpers to work properly.

This is currently required for TYPO3.Neos in order to localize the
error messages.

Related: NEOS-497

* Commit: `8fd47eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8fd47ebf9e3cd498c926ed43f3e2cf6bc8c89538>`_

[TASK] Add missing doc comments in ResourceManager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: NEOS-789

* Commit: `8e59dcf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8e59dcfa18935f381ab804e4b72faf6fbf7dd99e>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix postPackageUpdateAndInstall() in Flow
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a package declares it has some resource to install by defining::

  "extra": {
      "typo3/flow": {
          "manage-resources" : true
      }
  }

in the composer manifest, the contents of the `Defaults` and `Essentials`
folders in `Resources/Private/Installer` is supposed to be copied to the
project root.

This was broken, the files were copied to their own source location
instead, breaking changes like https://review.typo3.org/34312

Fixes: FLOW-120

* Commit: `bd3d8c6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/bd3d8c69e16802c90f1eaf3d61ee2a47d6c418cd>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix getStaticResourcesWebBaseUri()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the deprecated method ``getStaticResourcesWebBaseUri()``
in the ResourcePublisher and adds some logging for usage of the
deprecated methods.

Resolves: FLOW-118

* Commit: `30e2e98 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/30e2e98d5702e3d33f95df1791495cf552718434>`_

[TASK] Fix a doc comment in ResourcePublisher
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `59b4c37 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/59b4c3719b3ab14f0e06868519c8f28adc19bdb1>`_

[FEATURE] Add entity privilege target for Doctrine persistence
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a new privilege type, beeing able to filter all Doctrine queries
for entities the current roles should not be allowed to see.

This is working for all entities retrieved from persistence via
Doctrine, no matter if it’s done with DQL, QOM or while
lazy loading relations.

Resolves: FLOW-10

* Commit: `0b0ca50 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0b0ca50ee40f72f5e2cd14bb71f95efc45b06fb5>`_

[TASK] Move privilege evaluation into privilege manager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To avoid usage of a static vote functions in privilege
classes, this change moves evaluation of privileges into
the privilege manager.
This change removes the concept of privilege voters, which
is not needed due to the posssibility of implementing custom
privilege types.

This change also fixes an inconsistency within the privilege
evaluation process: Privilege targets with runtime evaluations
will no longer taken into account, if the runtime constraint
does not match the current situation.

When setting the same privilege twice within the same role,
only the last one will have effect. With that it is actually possible
to override permissions, e.g. in a dependant package.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `11b0d75 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/11b0d7568d7e9327a977594560011d5c73d599a1>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Multi-Storage / Multi-Target Resource Management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a revised resource management which allows
for storage and publication of persistent or static resources (assets)
in the local file system or other services, such as Amazon S3 or
Rackspace CloudFiles. It also introduces the concept of collections
which allows for grouping resources into collections with specific
storage and publication rules.

Existing persistent resources are migrated through the Doctrine
migration contained in this feature.

Note: this change raises the PHP requirement to 5.5.

Resolves: FLOW-108

* Commit: `37396c7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/37396c7c20f8275cabc12baa70e254f0d229faed>`_

[BUGFIX] Memcached backend not cleared across Cli/Web requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is because the backend is bound to the executing script + SAPI mode
and not the installation path + Flow context. This makes it
impossible to clear entries created in the Web with the
Cli cache flush commands, and vice versa.

Additionally the Flow context is not taking into account so
the Development/Production share the same cache, which can
lead to undesired behavior.

Fixes: FLOW-116

* Commit: `6c253fb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6c253fb0172b91cf2ad1efcc88a05365bc8d6bb8>`_

[TASK] Remove unused test fixture
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ff28790 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ff28790e959508546ef467cda4cc4c9d841be118>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Skip automatic persistence for updated entities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When trying to persist changes in a "safe request" (e.g. ``GET``) Flow
throws an exception::

  Detected modified or new objects [...] to be persisted which is not
  allowed for "safe requests"

including details on how to work around this.

This currently only works if entities have been *added* or *removed*.

With this change also *updates* to entities are tracked correctly so
that automatic persistence is skipped for modified objects for safe
requests.

This is a breaking change when code relied on the incorrect behavior of
automatically persisting changes even for safe requests.
In this case make sure to trigger updates only via unsafe requests (e.g.
``POST`` or ``PUT``).
If that's not an option, the issue can be worked around with a manual
call to ``PersistenceManager::persistAll()``.

Fixes: FLOW-84
* Related: `#47252 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/47252>`_
* Related: `#51570 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/51570>`_

* Commit: `ad0c717 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ad0c7178d98e5aa94da5eaf246f928f3040cea91>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Flow 2.3.0-beta1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the 2.3.0-beta1 change log to the master branch.

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/23/

* Commit: `f90545e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f90545ecaac91345f71be53fef6e1730417076e3>`_

[BUGFIX] Mark security tests using static mocks incomplete
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This marks five tests that use static mocks as incomplete. Static method
mocking is no longer supported since PHPUnit 4.0, and the test failures
do not indicate a broken functionality.

Instead they might mask other test failures, because "everyone knows"
the build is broken by these tests...

* Commit: `d3c9bd2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d3c9bd2cfb5e70193a42945c261f590cd2df065b>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Restructure policy component to new Policy.yaml format
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces the new concept for policies and
privileges. It also includes a restructuring of the privilege
voting process.

This is a breaking change mainly because it drops support for content
security and secure downloads. Both features will be re-added by new
privilege types in separate changes.
Besides it is quite likely that custom code that interacts with the
(non-public) API of the security framework won't work without
adjustments.

The new ``Policy.yaml`` syntax is covered by code migrations, so make
sure to run::

  ./flow core:migrate
  ./flow doctrine:migrate

commands and to carefully read their output.

Resolves: FLOW-11

* Commit: `7e33515 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7e33515840cbe94f0e578bd2444442ac5d1586da>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust code migration identifier pattern to contain the full timestamp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously code migrations are expected to have a class name with the
pattern ``Version<YYYYMMDDhhmm>`` and the unique identifier was
determined extracting the last 12 characters of the class name (which
are expected to be the timestamp).

With this change everything after the "Version" string is considered for
the identifier, allowing the timestamp to contain seconds as well.

This also adjusts existing code migrations to use the full timestamp in
order to establish the new guideline (note: those migrations still
return the old identifier so that they won't be applied again with a
new identifier).

Fixes: FLOW-110

* Commit: `c4122d9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c4122d9b12e02c39e164cac6c565a8e6b81b3333>`_

[BUGFIX] Make rewriteFilenameForUri handle non-ASCII names correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the filename consists completely of non-ASCII characters,
the ``rewriteFilenameForUri`` would substitute it with empty filename
like ".jpg", resulting in a broken resource link.

This change makes ``rewriteFilenameForUri`` accept unicode character.
In addition it checks if the filename is empty after the rewrite and
names it "unnamed.<fileExtension>" if needed.

Fixes: FLOW-99

* Commit: `6a9a39f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6a9a39f648e9a0317b0424d0244f28aa60eab2e1>`_

[TASK] Fix wrong path in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: FLOW-91

* Commit: `2b11a09 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2b11a0964f8befcb118a9d2235dfad97fd027fd4>`_

[TASK] Add helper to get the simple type or className of a value
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `176aee5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/176aee559f1d131f17a3f8fb6645bd414f79a644>`_

[FEATURE] UriTemplate implementation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds UriTemplate as per RFC 6570, allowing expansion of templates
into URI strings::

  // results in "foo/bar/baz"
  UriTemplate::expand('foo/{var}/baz', array('var' => 'bar'));

See the unit test and/or RFC for the long list of possible expansions.

* Commit: `775d927 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/775d927e06b740364a2dfb032a5cd0ee3d78c36d>`_

[FEATURE] Allow setting ini entries to sub requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a configuration option ``core.subRequestIniEntries``
where additional INI entries which should be passed
to the Flow CLI sub request can be stated.

This is exactly the behaviour of passing such a value via
the ``-d`` parameter of the php CLI.

* Commit: `e382e32 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e382e32a3ef7167e3580fc06d5c94860ebf91680>`_

[FEATURE] A Translation EelHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds an EelHelper for fetching translation IDs.

Usage example::

  ${Flow.I18n.Translation.translateById('someId', 'Acme.Shop')}

* Commit: `af08533 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/af0853389c8c26e54e49f86817e281f449f72731>`_

[TASK] In Debugger, blacklist Repository and Service objects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to reduce the vulnerability of unwanted recursion,
properties of objects ending with ``*Service`` or ``*Repository``
are not rendered again.

* Commit: `7e80e07 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7e80e076954136f3ef7f59624ee79d45ba98fed5>`_

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a separate file to track the *status* of the
site lock in addition to the actual lock file.

Besides this registers ``LockManager::unlockSite()`` as shutdown
function to make sure that the lock is released when the scripts
ends, to prevent that a site stays locked if an PHP error or
exception occurred.

Background:

Due to a regression introduced with
Ib701d67b3c7ed81a09e340583ffd2ee768857b83 the site lock could not
be released reliably on Windows systems because the lock file
was not unlinked. This is solved by using an additional file to
track the status of the lock.

* Fixes: `FLOW-365 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-365>`_
* Related: `FLOW-348 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-348>`_

* Commit: `fd8d4e4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fd8d4e44b76bdeca64663922c51bbaa6aef47acd>`_

[BUGFIX] Creating new symlinks should work still if target exists.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On publishing public resource folders, it is possible, that the
symlinked target directory already exists. On Windows environments this
causes an "Permission Denied" error and breaks the publishing.

To prevent this issues we can just check the existence of a linked
directory on target path and remove this before renaming the new symlink
to new target.

* Fixes: `FLOW-363 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-363>`_
* Commit: `ff2729f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ff2729f4893ae91929a26e42f36d33e81ffcf808>`_

[TASK] Update Release Notes and Upgrading Instructions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This tweaks and finalizes the Flow 3.0 Release Notes and adds an
``Upgrade Instructions`` section.

Besides this removes some left-over occurrences of "TYPO3 Flow".

* Commit: `0b4e9ae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0b4e9ae896d769ef6d9325556e7c08be0beac897>`_

[BUGFIX] Skip existing files when importing temporary resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a file is imported to the WriteableFilesystemStorage it would
previously always override the final file even if it already existed.
In case this same file has an open file handle, that can fail depending
on the used environment (Windows). Cases where the target file exists
and is opened can happen easily if a stream was opened to the target
file via the ``ResourceManager``. For example if you want to copy an
existing ``Resource`` this will happen.

* Fixes: `FLOW-363 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-363>`_
* Commit: `0d747fc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0d747fc1b5e1547b2f2fe48f716ecc183499ea3b>`_

[TASK] Remove AvailableProxyClasses when flushing all caches
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When caches are flushed via
``\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Cache\\CacheManager::flushCaches()`` then the
AvailableProxyClasses were not removed. This could lead to weired
issues because new classes were not loaded from the proxy cache.

Related: FLOW-291

* Commit: `d8d038f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d8d038fe99e9ae76cb9bd753464fbb950fcc55f6>`_

[BUGFIX] Flush configuration cache upon ``PackageStates`` update
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes sure that the configuration cache is flushed whenever
the ``PackageStates.php`` file is being updated.

Background:
Since I1f9d560303758c87b81a8b5578f1b80b76deb398 a compile time
configuration cache is built even in ``Development`` context.
When this cache is not flushed after creating a new package, this
leads to an fatal error::

 Argument 1 passed to ActionController::injectSettings() must be
 of the type array, null given

The reason is, that we currently initialize an empty setting for every
package in the ``ConfigurationManager``. If the cache is not rebuilt
upon creation of new Packages, this initialization is skipped and::

 ConfigurationManager::getConfiguration('Settings', 'New.Package');

returns ``NULL``.

Fixes: FLOW-291

* Commit: `c06a2a3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c06a2a3693021fdca2f3da4f632d40c574c18d3b>`_

[TASK] Update contributors list in guide
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `952f1bb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/952f1bb21502e2d24bd89d5ffd202e25706af371>`_

[BUGFIX] Avoid "too many open files" exception during I18n filesystem scan
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The I18n Service scans the filesystem for localized files in order to build
a list of available locales, this is done with a RecursiveIterator, which
will keep handles open in nested structures. A simple stack like now
used in the FileMonitor prevents the problem of "too many open files"
(leading to a fatal error) and at the same time brings clear performance
boost. Additionally hidden directories and files (starting with ".") are
ignored now.

Fixes: NEOS-111
(cherry picked from commit e6b5455225cf649de9ca2a2f919094b07429da01)

* Commit: `d2adbc9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d2adbc973f93a73c71af72b914acdf6bb86ff50c>`_

[TASK] Add request method in CurlEngineException
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change display the current request method in the
CurlEngineException message.

(cherry picked from commit 93a763d6c5a8b60ca74b1640230832ff1d25efb6)

* Commit: `85ddde6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/85ddde63f18ff12caec813466a21f603aaa3fd72>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix configuration option name for token in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The security documentation referred to an authentication provider
option ``tokenClass`` but the correct setting is ``token``.

Fixes: FLOW-51

* Commit: `30f6eea <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/30f6eeac7215c23a0883855f35fc82cdfbb65626>`_

[BUGFIX] Improve resolution of core migration ``version`` argument
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By specifying the ``version`` flag on the ``./flow core:migrate``
command a specific core migration can be targeted.

This change improves the regular expression that extracts the numeric
identifier from that flag:
Previously when specifying the whole version string as in
``TYPO3.Fluid-20150214130800`` the resulting version number would
include the "3" of the package key.

Related: FLOW-179

* Commit: `65a800a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/65a800a9a27daa8d476375b51a432c451ddd51d9>`_

[BUGFIX] Less verbose exception rendering in CLI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces several improvements addressing rendering of
exceptions in CLI mode:

* Move ``echoExceptionCli()`` up to ``AbstractExceptionHandler`` to
  unify rendering throughout different contexts
* Remove rendering of debug backtrace (this has been introduced with
  Ic4801947e60738f2693fb75590b5c9ba8b67f0ed but in the meantime the
  backtrace of Flow exceptions is stored in the log anyways)
* Use sparse highlighting if available (requires posix PHP extension)
* Output relative paths not only for files in ``/Packages``

Fixes: FLOW-285

* Commit: `5c57731 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5c577315557e1dfd3b2ed322ee4f83f6ca40c235>`_

[BUGFIX] Rename resource:repair to resource:clean in the exception message
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `85ad02c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/85ad02c08469900341c8a82f2cd22ef969ec6b2c>`_

[BUGFIX] Files::unlink() raises error if file does not exist anymore
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an issue with Files::unlink() which may signal an error when
trying to delete a file which does not exist anymore. A typical scenario
for this to happen is if a file-based cache is flushed in separately
running processes at the same time (race condition).

The new implementation of unlink() will catch errors occurred during
the first try of unlinking the file, then clear the stat cache and
check if the file still exists. If it does, this means the file couldn't
be unlinked and FALSE is returned. If the file does not exist anymore,
the method assumes that it has been deleted by other means already and
returns TRUE.

Resolves: FLOW-283

* Commit: `a217729 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a2177293dce851f3dd6d5e70b1e13ada7fa4997b>`_

[TASK] Get package version from composer.lock
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the PackageManager don't show the package version information.

This patch parse the composer.lock to get the current package version.
This patch also add internal caching to avoid multiple parsing of the
composer.lock

Resolves: NEOS-189
Resolves: FLOW-19

* Commit: `bac29ab <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/bac29ab99693580cdde0628ab351f2742ff082a6>`_

[BUGFIX] Isolated behat steps should clear configuration caches
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The change I65211ddd90484ec1a9d970394f0b9d268805ea9f uncovered an
issue with isolated behat steps as they relied on the wrong behavior
that configuration caches would be cleared on every development
request. This change adds clearing of Configuration caches to the
other cache clearings happening for each isolated step.

* Commit: `0a7b913 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0a7b91347945789eae748f51e9bc6e8132a97c9b>`_

[!!!][TASK] Remove unnecessary use of ReflectionService
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes a few usages of the ReflectionService and additionally
removes initialization from two methods in the ReflectionService as those
do not use any state in the ReflectionService.

This change is not breaking in itself but deprecates the method
``\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Reflection\\ReflectionService::getClassNameByObject()``
please use ``\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\TypeHandling::getTypeForValue()``
instead which has the same functionality.

* Commit: `8d5d116 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8d5d116824a1decb47c7141637e491ea7c8000ca>`_

[BUGFIX] Only monitor YAML files in global Configuration folder
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The generated `IncludeCachedConfigurations.php` file was also
monitored for changes which actually resulted in configuration
changes on each hit in development.

* Commit: `6f01b6d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/6f01b6d0ad88109a97cd6a153402d5250e6ddd95>`_

[TASK] Update Security Documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates the security chapter to
the new security concepts.

Related: NEOS-5

* Commit: `b4616fa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b4616fa268eb0318fdd0dfcbec1e517802eda58b>`_

[BUGFIX] Initialize Router lazily
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Router should be able to initialize configured routes lazily
exept when explicitly told not to do so.
This change allows the Router to get the configuration directly
from the ``ConfigurationManager`` if no other routing configuration
exists. If some routing configuration was set, this is used.

Fixes: FLOW-192
Fixes: FLOW-205

* Commit: `722eeb1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/722eeb148e88b6da19f2ce33a1aa86a8d3103422>`_

[BUGFIX] Support serialization of classes with static properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When trying to serialize a proxied class that contains static
properties an exception is thrown::

  Runtime Notice: Accessing static property [...] as non static

The reason is that the ``DependencyInjection\\\\ProxyClassBuilder``
overrides the magic ``__sleep()`` method of the proxy class, accessing
all properties as ``$this->\\$propertyName``.

This change fixes the issue by skipping static properties.

Fixes: FLOW-282

* Commit: `c042bae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c042bae9a79b194831956b3001fe79ea8cbc2c1d>`_

[TASK] Make FileMonitor Strategy changes non breaking
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Splits the new method ``setFileDeleted`` into a new marker
interface for ChangeDetectionStrategies to allow old strategies to
work without changes.

* Commit: `dac5cca <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/dac5cca44b4b39fdd58e2af1054217d00a5e23f1>`_

[TASK] Adjust ACL migration to cover content security
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Restructure policy component to new
Policy.yaml format" change (I84e188e89a05ec0dd1f9ee96fe312dac81806759)
that adjusts the provided core migration to cover "entities" resources
too. Previously a warning was shown when applying the core migration
to ``Policy.yaml`` files that contained resources of type "entities".

Related: FLOW-11
Related: FLOW-10

* Commit: `096c7fe <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/096c7fe31959b5208a20cebef104ef11d1a8b4d2>`_

[BUGFIX] Repository string in the namespace break ENTITY_CLASSNAME
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change replace the call to str_replace, by preg_replace to replace
only the string "Repository" at the end of the string, to avoid the bug
if the Package name or any namespace segement contain the "Repository"
string.

* Commit: `0828cd5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0828cd56b0b282be5dfdba1303d9303fcd2842c7>`_

[FEATURE] Make ignoredClasses for debugger configurable in settings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Classes that should be ignored while dumping the object tree
are now configurable in the settings. This makes it extendable
in other packages. A default in the debugger is available, if the
configurationManager is not available.

Example::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      error:
        debugger:
          ignoredClasses:
            'Acme\\\\Test\\\\.*TestClass': TRUE

Adds a unit test for the processing of the settings
Adds a functional test for merging of settings over the default

Resolves: NEOS-1140

(cherry picked from commit 33627e6d566431aaf02b473cdaf07b46c89a79fa)

* Commit: `1acce63 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1acce637221ac58acdf7ca4ce057f10f85b58916>`_

[BUGFIX] Avoid Cache FileBackend tests to create actual files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Running the ``FileBackend`` unit tests, will create some test files in
the current directory.
This change adjusts the ``SimpleFileBackend`` unit tests in order to
avoid this side-effect.

Background:
This is a follow up to the "Add tests for Cache FileBackends"-change
(Iee5d0de460bd7ac72018015a4cd3dad4af859868) that added unit tests
that expose the side-effect.

* Commit: `c340454 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c340454a808e28bd1f613be47675c87b81d7f42f>`_

[BUGFIX] ClassLoader should check sub namespaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change cleans the ``ClassLoader`` up and fixes a problem with
nested autoloading namespaces. Before a nested namespace got preference
and was only tried for loading a class. Now every possible path is
tried for nested namespaces.

An example are the two packages:

- guzzlehttp/guzzle
   Which declares autoloading as: ``"GuzzleHttp\\\\": "src/"``

- guzzlehttp/log-subscriber
   Which delcares autoloading as: ``"GuzzleHttp\\\\Subscriber\\\\Log\\\\": "src/"``

As the second declaration was nested in the first one it got precedence
for all classes inside of ``GuzzleHttp\\\\Subscriber\\\\`` making it
impossible to load classes inside that namespace from the first package.
With this change both paths are tried in order of their nesting level.

Kudos go to Jens Schulze for reporting, preparing an initial fix and the
test.

Fixes: FLOW-238

* Commit: `e9af4a3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e9af4a33fc2626ffe79d75a0e9a13ba0d73a1d7c>`_

[BUGFIX] Test whether the current entity matches a privilege
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This decouples the check, whether a query has to be modified by a
``EntityPrivilege`` SQL constraint from the generation of the actual
SQL query.
By this it is possible to skip not matching privileges before the SQL
is generated.

One use case for this is an ``EntityPrivilege`` with a fixed entity
type, where no matcher expression has to be evaluated to check the
target entity type.

Additionally this adds a ``FalseConditionGenerator`` to be able to add
a FALSE condition part in the SQL generation process.
Furthermore this renames the ``AnyEntityConditionGenerator`` to
``TrueConditionGenerator`` respectively for consistency reasons.

* Commit: `627427f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/627427ff6e5dd9935aa8d7d81ba62712d4b6d851>`_

[BUGFIX] Disable authorization checks in functional tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the ``FunctionalTestCase`` base class to disable
authorization checks if the ``testableSecurityEnabled`` is not set.

Background:
If security is not enable for functional tests, the
``Security\\\\Context`` is not initialized. This leads to exceptions in
case the ``PolicyEnforcement`` kicks in. Because functional tests
inherit the configuration of the default contexts, this happens very
likely, especially when making use of node related privileges in Neos
sites.

Related: NEOS-5

* Commit: `c0b6f3b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c0b6f3b82893a115a207bec89d81543e20041432>`_

[BUGFIX] Simplify and stabilize security context hash calculation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This simplifies ``Security\\\\Context::getContextHash()`` and makes sure
that it never returns a hash over an *empty* string which could be the
case before.

Background:
The Security Context Hash used to be generated by iterating over a
list of "ContextHashComponents". Those could be influenced using the
``setContextHashComponent()`` method.
The drawback of this approach is a pretty complex mechanism that is not
easy to comprehend. Besides resetting of the hash was error-prone and
could lead to hash components being ignored.

This also removes the method ``getRolesHash()`` that was neither
documented nor used outside of the ``Security\\\\Context``.

Related: NEOS-5
Related: NEOS-433

* Commit: `207f541 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/207f541e021f496e387c6fb159fa1ebb55030e2f>`_

[BUGFIX] Storage Object: Media type is not updated if file name changed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes an issue with the Resource Storage Object which might
contain a media type not matching the actual file when setFilename()
has been called to update the object.

* Commit: `762f177 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/762f177125a16db5601018b070aae0727f5dbe6f>`_

[TASK] Output actual exception message for failed core migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Exceptions that are thrown during application of core migrations are
caught in the ``Migrations\\Manager`` masking the actual error message.

This change adds the actual exception message to the re-thrown
RuntimeException.

Related: FLOW-179

* Commit: `fc74c43 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fc74c43b76b28856b1e762a04876a247e69157f6>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unit test for ``CacheManager``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Improve security performance" change
(If6ccf8d7bbbe25cfcd6596a88a6192bf051bc9f5) fixing a unit test.

Background:
The backport of this change from master to the 3.0 branch did not
include all the required changes in the unit test case.

* Commit: `50e8089 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/50e8089e1451bdc275243dbf5815d6690b6410c9>`_

[BUGFIX] Tweaks and fixes to ``security:showeffectivepolicy`` command
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes some left-over references to the
``PrivilegeVoteResult`` class that no longer exists.

Besides this renames the "role-identifiers" parameter to "roles" and
expands those roles in order to cover parent roles, too.
Lastly this fixes support for custom privilege types allowing the
"privilege-type" parameter to refer to any class implementing
``PrivilegeInterface``.

* Commit: `8f05c3b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8f05c3b28fb5a6985be50572724e1c42540997ee>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix re-submission of file uploads
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the ``<f:form.upload />`` ViewHelper to upload a file
previously uploaded resources are re-displayed via hidden fields so that
they don't have to be transmitted again.
With the new Resource Management (FLOW-108) these hidden fields have
been renamed from ``submittedFile`` to ``originallySubmittedResource``
(see Ic72a4ba780ebdef8b0940f3b9d20fa2c8840f834).
But the ``ResourceTypeConverter`` was not adjusted accordingly.

Fixes: FLOW-214

* Commit: `7bb6856 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7bb6856c0d165c5bfd0d0ba1fedb4b6016abe901>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't evaluate ``SecurityContextHash`` if authorization checks are disabled
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously ``Security\\Context::getContextHash()`` evaluated all
``contextHashComponents`` even if ``areAuthorizationChecksDisabled()``
returned TRUE.
This could lead to data that was fetched within the
``withoutAuthorizationChecks`` closure to be stored in the wrong caches.

Related: NEOS-5
Related: NEOS-433

* Commit: `b09aeda <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b09aedad060b18880b09da3a27d66a64695ff78f>`_

[TASK] Reset ``ResourceManager`` for functional tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the way HTTP requests are triggered in functional tests the
``ResourceManager`` was initialized very early in the process.
As a result the ``FileSystemTarget::baseUri`` was initialized with an
empty string.

With this change the ResourceManager is re-initialized for every test.

* Commit: `ba38dca <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ba38dca496419362d09b14e0c68098a53b5d70bf>`_

[TASK] Improve security performance
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This solves two problems. First it eliminates the need to use ``eval``
for AOP runtime expressions by caching the found expressions in a
PhpBackend during compile time and requiring the code as actual
closures during runtime. This also reduces the cache size as the
closure code is no longer included as strings.

Additionally the ``methodPermissions`` data is changed to be static
as it will be the same across all instances of ``MethodPrivilege``
anyway. This drastically reduces memory usage and also runtime due
to less cache requests which are especially costly for a file based
cache.

* Commit: `a67c160 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a67c16056e2ee9024b1ee62b5f7be4f6bab0afc8>`_

[BUGFIX] Only monitor files with relevant file extensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts the ``ClassFiles``, ``ConfigurationFiles`` and
``TranslationFiles`` file monitors to only track changes in files with
the corresponding extension (``php`` for classes, ``yaml`` for
configuration and ``xlf`` for translations).

Background:
With the fixed ``PSR-4`` support (introduced with
I9c613df54a8b650c53b4ab8e03071432e13d3c4e) we no longer determine PHP
classes from the corresponding file path and -name, but by analyzing
the contents of the file.
Because the ``Flow_ClassFiles`` file monitor watched for changes in
*all* files within the classes root of all packages, this could lead
to binary files being analyzed. In some PHP versions this seem to
trigger a warning.

Fixes: FLOW-271
Related: FLOW-238

* Commit: `aeff405 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/aeff4057563a28b41b30593d9902954f3358ca59>`_

[!!!][TASK] Use a persistent cache for storing encryption key
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change takes advantage of the new persistent caches feature and
stores the encryption key used by the Hash Service in such a persistent
cache. If an ``EncryptionKey`` file exists in Data/Persistent from
earlier Flow versions, that file will be used instead.

This change may require your attention if you tailored your automated
deployment to the encryption key file being located in Data/Persistent.

* Commit: `7e923ca <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7e923ca3a5bc17f437dff855d06cba8a15aa8872>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Persistent Caches
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces the concept of persistent caches. Caches which are
configured to be "persistent" will be skipped by the Cache Manager when
flushing all caches or flushing caches by tag. Therefore it is now
possible to use the caching framework as a low level key-value-store
for storing keys, preferences, tokens or other artifacts which usually
would have been stored in the Data/Persistent directory.

If persistent caches are used consequently, it is possible to configure
a Flow application to not store any persistent data in the file system.
This allows for clustering and more flexible management in cloud
environments.

A cache is marked as "persistent" by setting the respective flag in the
configuration in Caches.yaml::

    Acme_MyCache:
      frontend: TYPO3\\Flow\\Cache\\Frontend\\StringFrontend
      backend: TYPO3\\Flow\\Cache\\Backend\\SimpleFileBackend
      persistent: true

Persistent caches won't be flushed by the ``flow:cache:flush`` commands,
and for file based caches, the data is not stored in
``Data/Temporary/Cache`` by default, but in ``Data/Persistent/Cache``.

Note: This change might break unit tests which mock cache frontend /
backend combinations because a new lifecycle method (initializeObject)
has been introduced to the AbstractFrontend. In order to fix these
tests, simply make sure to call initializeObject() after the frontend
has been instantiated.

Resolves: FLOW-261

* Commit: `d3d2ab2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d3d2ab2ec7e8712d0ebdc332cd8d13ce11f16047>`_

[TASK] Add tests for Cache FileBackends
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Besides adding unit tests covering the basic functionality of the
``SimpleFileBackend`` this change introduces tests for the recently
modified way of including PHP files via
``SimpleFileBackend::requireOnce()``.

Background:
Previously files where included within a try/catch block swallowing
errors in included PHP files.
With Ied1dd72d4d9035a6f7673ceb096cc908c767d80c the try/catch block
was removed for performance reasons, with the side-effect that errors
and exceptions are no longer silently skipped.

Depends: Ied1dd72d4d9035a6f7673ceb096cc908c767d80c

* Commit: `27391ea <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/27391ea901f850a7756f36ea3b2d93f82a44cadc>`_

[BUGFIX] Properly expand parent roles in Policy.yaml core migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The core migration ``TYPO3.Flow-20141113121400`` that rewrites existing
``Policy.yaml`` files to match the reworked Security Framework also
adjusted the role identifiers that were allowed to only contain the
role name without package key prefix if used in the current package.

With this fix the role identifier expansion now also works for
referenced parent roles.

Fixes: FLOW-221
Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `d9a5ed9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d9a5ed9b9cdeae4cd3fd8cf5434468546fb60c12>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Make bidirectional OneToOne relations work correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes bidirectional OneToOne relations, which previously
resulted in foreign keys being created on both sides. Therefore the
related entities could no longer be deleted.

The problem was that the joinColum mapping was created in every case,
which doctrine interprets as a secondary hint for the owning side.
The joinColumn should only be created for the owning side, i.e. only
for unidirectional OneToOne and for the inversedBy side of a
bidirectional OneToOne.

This change is not breaking, but needs manual attention to fix the
schema of own projects as follows:

After upgrading to this change, you should run following commands
from command line to update your projects:

  flow doctrine:migrationgenerate
    -> check the created migration file, it should contain a number of
       "DROP FOREIGN KEY", "DROP INDEX" and "DROP {column}" statements
       for each of your bidirectional OneToOne relations.
  flow doctrine:migrate
    -> applies the changes

Fixes: FLOW-87

* Commit: `a121935 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a12193577004d55b410a6f8a192097d2753b21d6>`_

[TASK] Move a unit test fixture class out of test class
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A trivial change, but it is cleaner and allow to use brianium/paratest
for running the unit tests.

* Commit: `67d325b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/67d325be117e8c2abb602bb855bc00c5c36c89af>`_

[TASK] Better configuration error handling in EntityManagerFactory
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Doctrine\\EntityManagerFactory in Flow gets slightly better error
handling covering configuration of Doctrine and backend options.

* Commit: `b8c0d8a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b8c0d8a90d21f4b1c857aac5237234c2f1282103>`_

[TASK] Store nicely formatted JSON with JsonArrayType
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `a424e7f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a424e7f76f19c7c4ef49afd485c798e1d11d4c6c>`_

[!!!][TASK] Remove compileConfigurationFiles setting
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since the configuration cache is now cleared when changes are detected,
the possibility to actually enable/disable that caching is no longer
needed.

* Commit: `e3e1651 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e3e16516ea8536124631c2a0ed7cf11cece4b2cc>`_

[TASK] Only flush AOP proxy classes if needed by config change
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change does no longer remove the AOP proxy classes upon every
change to configuration, since e.g. Views.yaml or changes to NodeTypes
in Neos do not need a proxy class rebuild.

With this only changes to Settings, Objects and Policy configuration
flush the AOP proxies.

* Commit: `2e50f3a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2e50f3a3b89a1ba28889b58f143215d49e83c001>`_

[TASK] Flush configuration cache through file monitor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the file monitoring detects changes to configuration files, flush
the configuration cache.

With this in place, the change also removes the settings for Development
and Testing context that switched caching off. This improves performance
in those contexts.

* Commit: `9dd34f2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9dd34f206a9c984614e0713ff02cb299c73bf795>`_

[TASK] Cleanup FileMonitor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This does a cleanup of the ``FileMonitor`` at the same time improving
performance. Reading the current state of directories is now done
with a ``Generator`` method to reduce memory footprint. Additionally
the amount of looping was reduced.

Finally you can now exclude whole subdirectories by adding an empty
file named ``.flowFileMonitorIgnore`` to it.

* Commit: `2f3d28d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2f3d28d8994e8453309f22b24d1e488bd2cde064>`_

[TASK] Optimize garbageCollection in FileBackend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We can retrieve the cache identifier for a given cache
file much easier with the directoryIterator than is done
currently.

* Commit: `c32c298 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c32c298b6144a1a5ac185084b683479192f91141>`_

[TASK] Optimize requireOnce in SimpleFileBackend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We go back using a is_file check before trying to require a
cache file. This is the safest way to detect existence and is_file
is still faster than file_exists.

This also prevents errors that happen because a previous exception
in file requires was caught.

* Commit: `e36bb1a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e36bb1ab91884cabefe908fb7a0c3d86e7f04ef4>`_

[BUGFIX] The ``EntityPrivilegeExpressionEvaluator`` is singleton
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``EntityPrivilegeExpressionEvaluator`` is already annotated as
scope ``singleton`` but was instanciated in the EntityPrivilege.
That is quite costly with a lot of queries. Now the ObjectManager
is asked for an instance of the evaluator.

* Commit: `0e47b60 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0e47b6091eaf35b9dcc2ec87bb86db82796854ed>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix PSR-4 support for Flow packages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Basic support for ``PSR-4`` structured packages has been added with
Flow 2.2 (see I9b2dae7761ef48389d9915c1269df2fdf771af8c).

However, automatic re-reflection didn't work for PSR-4 Flow packages.
Besides, custom ``Package.php`` files were expected to be located at
``Acme.PackageKey/Classes/Acme/PackageKey/Package.php`` which is not in
sync with PSR-4.

This change fixes the two issues by extracting the actual class name
from the actual PHP files instead of trying to defer it from the file
path. Besides it replaces the static lookup path for custom
``Package.php`` files taking the ``autoload`` property of the composer
manifest into account.

Note: While this fixes basic support for PSR-4 Flow still doesn't support
all composer features. Primarily there is a 1:1 mapping from package to
autoloading type and classes path while composer manifests support
multiple mappings by namespace.

Related: FLOW-238

* Commit: `a213589 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a213589908ac5d34c203170cc79356ad357b6f0f>`_

[TASK] Use doctrine caching in functional tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Enable doctrine caches for functional tests to avoid slowdowns
due to recalculation of Query filters. Two tests clear the caches
to avoid side effects.

* Commit: `0b4d60f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0b4d60fe272d824f9ed9452350dcd7569ac45a18>`_

[BUGFIX] ValidatorResolver shouldn't ask class loader for simple types
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ValidatorResolver generates a Validator conjunction for a given class
if that class exists. Problem is that there is no check for simple types
before this, so a simple type will trigger the class loader (every time).
To avoid that we now check if the given type is a simple type.

Related: Icefc6eadbe7cae2e12cc2204ec6de3f25370aefa

* Commit: `cde5570 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/cde55706ac08dbc4439b4518cc2797225d1c04d1>`_

[BUGFIX] Setting properties from Objects.yaml should invoke setter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you configure simple values via Objects.yaml they should be set
via setter if one exists, as the setter could manipulate the
incoming value. Without this change the injected values are directly
set to the property circumventing the setter.

Fixes: FLOW-30

* Commit: `01ea9a4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/01ea9a4d671e65518c09a326a42f9b7bb11810c9>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix "Call to undefined method ...::getPrototype()"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When injecting dependencies that take prototype-scoped objects as
constructor parameter, the ``ProxyClassBuilder`` class tries to
instantiate these objects using the ``getPrototype`` method. This method
is apparently supposed to be implemented by the proxy class, but never
is.

This results in a fatal error when the owning object is instantiated:

    Fatal error: Call to undefined method My\\Class::getPrototype() in ...

This commit fixes this behaviour by replacing the ``getPrototype`` call
with a simple constructor call and adds a (kind-of) simple functional test
for this behaviour.

Fixes: FLOW-175

* Commit: `ae75de4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ae75de4c788700ccaed130856ed6f5680220c104>`_

[BUGFIX] Add format to encoded DateTime objects in JsonArrayType
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To be able to convert the stored DateTime back into the object we
add the format as well. The stored array can directly be used with
a DateTimeConverter.

Related: I7eeb7d55e8ee593cae5bccf98211e4a2ff83b1d8

* Commit: `a65a1af <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a65a1afda90eac508ce980e39de73c53435b64d3>`_

[FEATURE] JsonArrayType for doctrine persistence
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds an extended JsonArrayType that can en-/decode Flow entities.
It is not used anywhere for now.

Related: NEOS-427

* Commit: `caea089 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/caea0899ef93111c1d0cda779d459dfd20ff307e>`_

[BUGFIX] Persisting of objects as serialized data not supported
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``ReflectionService`` does not add properties to metadata information
of classes if they are not tagged with ``@Flow\\Entity`` or
``@Flow\\ValueObject``.
This makes it f.e. impossible to store an object as serialized object.
Previously any object (except some whitelisted) needed at least a
``@ORM\\OneToOne`` annotation to be persisted in a property.

To be able to store f.e. ``UserSettings``, ``BasketItems``, ``Sessions``
or DTOs the doctrine Annotation ``@ORM\\Column(type="object")`` is now
supported.

The whitelist was removed from ``ReflectionService`` in order to allow
any class to define custom column types.

The ``ClassSchema`` does no longer contain information about
properties declared ``@Flow\\Transient``, the same is true for properties
annotated with ``@Flow\\Inject`` so that injected properties are never
persisted.

If an object has a property which holds an object and that property is
annotated with ``@ORM\\Column(type="object")`` that will be stored as
expected (i.e. as a serialized PHP object). If no such annotation is given
and no other relation type annotation is given, an exception is thrown as
before.

Working Example::

  /**
  * @var \\Acme\\Foo\\Bar;
  * @ORM\\Column(type="object")
  */
  protected $bar;

In the example above the doctrine behavior for object types matches and
invokes ``\\Doctrine\\DBAL\\Types\\ObjectType``

Also added some tests for other extended types supported by Doctrine:

* \\Doctrine\\DBAL\\Types\\Type::SIMPLE_ARRAY
* \\Doctrine\\DBAL\\Types\\Type::JSON_ARRAY
* \\Doctrine\\DBAL\\Types\\Type::DATETIME
* \\Doctrine\\DBAL\\Types\\Type::DATETIMETZ
* \\Doctrine\\DBAL\\Types\\Type::DATE
* \\Doctrine\\DBAL\\Types\\Type::TIME

Please note:

- DATETIMETZ is not supported by several dbs (i.e. mysql):
  @see http://doctrine-dbal.readthedocs.org/en/latest/reference/known-vendor-issues.html#datetimetz
  If you want to handle different timezone informations in mysql:
  @see http://doctrine-orm.readthedocs.org/en/latest/cookbook/working-with-datetime.html#handling-different-timezones-with-the datetime-type
- DATETIME does not consider timezones and always applies the servers
  date.timezone:
  @see http://doctrine-orm.readthedocs.org/en/latest/cookbook/working-with-datetime.html#default-timezone-gotcha
- SIMPLE_ARRAY and JSON_ARRAY will always be hydrated as array, they
  will never be loaded as NULL, even if marked nullable

Fixes: FLOW-254

* Commit: `13b4ed9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/13b4ed9ba2af91804f08397ca05c30d876e84744>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't store ``SecurityContextHash`` in session
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds ``Flow\\Transient`` annotations to ``Security\\Context::contextHash``
and ``Security\\Context::contextHashComponents`` so that they won't be
stored in the session and refreshed for every request.

Related: NEOS-433

* Commit: `97f6ac1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/97f6ac1d078b1998b33aaeea3298e1a4d1b2ac8d>`_

[TASK] Refactor initialization of security operations in behat tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change leave the decision, if security should be initialized or
not to the respective behat context. As tests executing code, which
uses security features all need an initialized security component,
we cannot initialize only when steps of the security trait are called
in the tests explicitly.

* Commit: `a18dacc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a18daccbadb2963c7484960de0c006c93fc150e5>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't skip core migrations quietly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes sure that ``./flow core:migrate`` always informs the
user about skipped packages even if the ``verbose`` flag is not set.

Background:
This is a follow up to the "Improve handling of core migrations" change
(If66a2dff21b239963728963f15437599a8442f72) that introduced this new
behavior.

Related: FLOW-179

* Commit: `aec41bc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/aec41bc8aab6c6add08a30dc4a08d660cd9b7828>`_

[BUGFIX] Whitelist added objects to resource repository
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When an image variant or thumbnail could not be generated during
the import of the image. The generation on the first GET request
failed also due to the missing whitelisting.

(cherry picked from commit 5c7e3a803f627389c3718fd4cd8008517f791344)

* Commit: `7eb57f5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/7eb57f5c8c036d616d37a5a34f35f530c6bb7c26>`_

[BUGFIX] Re-activate authorization checks only when not disabled already
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes the re-enabling of authorization checks, when calling
``Security\\Context::withoutAuthorizationChecks()`` in nested calls.

Fixes: FLOW-249

* Commit: `8d9af9b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8d9af9b56b4ceb68c86fc9d74b2e423f3891ee65>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove Persistent Resource Rewrite Rules and Update Documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For Flow 3.0 and the new Resource Management, these lines in the config are
not needed anymore; in fact, they even harm because they prevent file uploads
from working correctly.

Resolves: FLOW-246
Related: NEOS-1111

* Commit: `49f8dae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/49f8dae41202acd6917b2f3cd018069a7a49cb47>`_

[TASK] Add a place for release notes to documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a home for release notes to the documentation.

* Commit: `194f979 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/194f979a489da73027f0054631b01e6b0442635f>`_

[TASK] Proper(er) solution for connection issue hotfix
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Right before the release of 3.0.0 beta 1 a hotfix was added to enable
proxy compilation even if no database connection is possible. Said
problem is caused by the update to Doctrine ORM 2.4 which pulls in a new
DBAL version as well. That offers version-aware platform handling and in
turn tries to connect and read the server software version used whenever
the database platform instance is fetched.

This change drops the unconditional try/catch hotfix and replaces it by
more (but not less awkward) code. If a connection is not possible, the
generic platform tied to a driver will be used, which is sufficient for
the tasks that make sense without a connection.

* Commit: `50c7058 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/50c7058039def6b1c178024cd1ea71b312880536>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix error in PostgreSQL down migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the down migration of Version20141113145146 the dtype column was added
again, even though it was already present (from the previous down in
Version20141118174722).

The removal of the dtype column in the up migration is removed as well,
since the whole table is dropped in the next up anyway.

* Commit: `45630d9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/45630d9441b0401c271550859c8f6c3c7bfb5fe4>`_

[TASK] Add "cleanup" schema migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds migrations for MySQL and PostgreSQL that tweak the DB schema a
bit, cleaning up some leftover discrepancies.

* Commit: `b53e6d7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b53e6d7acd315c8bd6e94dee4150ddda6cac6ca2>`_

[TASK] Tweak schema migrations to Flow/Party decoupling
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts schema migrations to that it is actually possible to:

* install Flow without Party
* add Party to a "clean" Flow setup

Related: FLOW-5

* Commit: `37d7f60 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/37d7f607329a1d792fd5c21be132aba77ab5f165>`_

[TASK] Add @covers to list of ignored annotations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With recent PHPUnit versions phpdocumentor/reflection-docblock is pulled
in. This contains a @covers annotation that triggers an exception during
reflection. To avoid this, it is added to Flows default list of ignored
annotations.

* Commit: `052582c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/052582cb712a24976266f9e30442811876f51312>`_

[TASK] Adjust unit tests to "Flush compiled configuration"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The reworking of the change Ic3af97d652e87271ed7c2dfbc1091ea4cb7e1973
forgot to adjust the unit tests. This reverts the needed changes.

Related: FLOW-229

* Commit: `eb3e321 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/eb3e321d2bd4aa1089884ee2d46c25e7e1567877>`_

[BUGFIX] Flush compiled configuration on cache:flush
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ConfigurationManager writes compiled configuration to disk (if this
is enabled, by default this is the case in Production context). But this
compiled configuration is not removed when flushing caches, so that
changes never become active.

This change adjusts the CacheManager to be aware of this compiled
configuration and remove it during flushCaches().

Fixes: FLOW-229

* Commit: `4a33d05 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4a33d05a45d8ea945154c2653757ee83f80502b5>`_

[TASK] Remove unused injection of Doctrine EntityManager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Doctrine EntityManager is injected in the ResourceManager, but never
used.

Additionally removes the unused protected property ``importedResources``.
The getter (which is tagged @api) is still there but already gets the
information from the ``ResourceRepository``.

* Commit: `47e1244 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/47e12443e53ee7f12fb8562905125dfa6add205c>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix resolving of imported interface namespaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dependency injection and property mapping does not work for
interfaces of the current namespace if the code does not refer to
the fully qualified name.

Fixes: FLOW-34

* Commit: `798b584 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/798b584542d53a17afb419890c8db7587082a184>`_

[TASK] Bump version in Documentation/Settings.yml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8714e5d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8714e5d8b8af95146dfbc1b931f1588a111a8e1b>`_

[BUGFIX] Resource should not unpublish if file is in use
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes an issue with the Resource Manager's ``deleteResource``
method which unpublished the respective resource data even if it was
still in use by other ressources.

Additionaly optimise resource deletion so that the resource manager
will only unpublish / try to unpublish resources once. Previously
``deleteResource`` was triggered through a direct method call (for
example by an ImageVariant) and then additionally through the Doctrine
lifecycle event.

* Commit: `f07e7f6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f07e7f6ac3ed98b3271a9b61cd70ac32ded6adb1>`_

[TASK] Tiny fix to TranslationHelper docblock
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Simply fixes a copy-and-paste error.

* Commit: `982e3f2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/982e3f2d518708921c86991ed1de3010adb3a420>`_

[FEATURE] Make custom Doctrine mapping types configurable
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the hardcoded registration of the ObjectArray mapping type
and instead introduces mapping type configuration from settings::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      persistence:
        doctrine:
          # DBAL custom mapping types can be registered here
          dbal:
            mappingTypes:
              'mytype':
                dbType: 'db_mytype'
                className: 'Acme\\Demo\\Doctrine\\DataTypes\\MyType'

See the Doctrine documentation for more details:
http://docs.doctrine-project.org/projects/doctrine-orm/en/latest/cookbook/custom-mapping-types.html

* Resolves: `#33838 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33838>`_
* Commit: `a72251e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a72251ed9f23ba99b054b4779a76215766fed3ec>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Flow 2.3.2
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/typo3-flow-release/37/

* Commit: `9ce15e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9ce15e5d65c30b1f91ecde05568202e802df7ee7>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix hostname option name for Redis backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Redis backend option for specifying a hostname is not `host`
but `hostname`.

* Commit: `f1ef13a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f1ef13a3ec383bbe92273cdbccccb8f462aefc65>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't append subrequest arguments to toplevel request
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sub-requests the ``Uribuilder`` would append the sub-request
arguments again without namespace prefix if ``addQueryString`` was set.
This can lead to invalid URLs and possible side-effects.
An example of this would be that having this URL::

  some/action?namespace[argument]=foo

And building a URL in the subrequest with ``addQueryString`` enabled and
arguments set to ``array('argument' => 'bar')``. Previously the
resulting URL was::

  some/action?namespace[argument]=bar&argument=foo

With this change it is::

  some/action?namespace[argument]=bar

Fixes: NEOS-1027

* Commit: `5a11d74 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5a11d74e354d12753f4384d07dafe8aeb32c1708>`_

[BUGFIX] Pointed the issue tracker URL to the new JIRA instance
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `89d0ede <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/89d0edebf0e13c96577fdc6ec1a8a5c93ba3c10d>`_

[BUGFIX] Do not register lifecycles for unproxied entities
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When entities are annotated @Flow\\Proxy(false), lifecycle methods for
fix* are still registered in the AnnotationDriver, leading to an
exception being thrown by doctrine that the lifecycle callback method
does not exist.

Since unproxied classes are not supposed to work with AOP/DI and those
fix* methods only deal with that, the registration of those fixes is
unneeded in that case.

This changeset fixes that, by only registering lifecycle callbacks on
entities that are proxied.

Fixes: FLOW-258

* Commit: `613051e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/613051e7064684e2dd3fa34edeb3ab776ae71c2e>`_

[FEATURE] Request patterns for host name and IP addresses
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds RequestPatterns for **host name** and **IP addresses**.
Host names are configurable with a simple wildcard ('*') pattern, IP
addresses use ``CIDR`` style pattern with support for both ``IPv4`` and
``IPv6`` following ``RFC4632`` and ``RFC4291``.

Examples:

Only grant access to clients with IPs from *192.168.178.0* to
*192.168.178.255*::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      security:
        firewall:
          rejectAll: TRUE
          filters:
            'ip':
              patternType:  'Ip'
              patternValue: '192.168.178.0/24'
              interceptor:  'AccessGrant'

Protect an area of your application file based authentication **and** IP
check (only trigger authentication and entry points for clients with an
IP of ``127.0.0.1``)::

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      security:
        authentication:
          providers:
            'LocalNetworkProvider':
              provider: 'FileBasedSimpleKeyProvider'
              providerOptions:
                keyName: 'AdminKey'
                authenticateRoles: ['Acme.SomePackage:Administrator']
              requestPatterns:
                controllerObjectName: 'Acme\\SomePackage\\Controller\\Administration\\.*'
                ip: '::7F00:1'

* Resolves: `#49522 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49522>`_
* Commit: `2c1c4a3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2c1c4a323cac2670b41584aa213109584de778fe>`_

[BUGFIX] First Functional test run should not be marked risky
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Changing globals inside of the test code (which includes the setUp method)
will set the test to risky and immediately skip the execution of the test.
Globals are now changed in ``setupBeforeClass`` to avoid this problem.

* Commit: `5c188b4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5c188b4e2230021d44c4b0bbb97ecf9dc4d8f217>`_

[BUGFIX] Check if migrations exist before trying to register them
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the check for the existence of migration files is delegated
to the doctrine/migration third party library.

The behavior has changed and an exception is thrown if the folder doesn't
exist. To not let the third party library handle that and to prevent this,
the check is done upstream in Flow.

Fixes: FLOW-301

* Commit: `a6ff94b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a6ff94b6c134c5ec42781b2e48c521ebec81b72a>`_

[TASK] Require doctrine/migrations 1.0.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With doctrine/migrations not having had a stable branch for years,
Flow always required dev-master. Now that 1.0 is being worked on,
require that instead.

Related: FLOW-300

* Commit: `c9e9567 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c9e95672965e79b67e50b40ba3ed5cac7e9a0e39>`_

[BUGFIX] Save unicode characters unescaped in JsonArrayType
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As there might be the need of a string search in the JSON data
all unicode characters should be stored unescaped to allow them
to be properly searched and compared.

* Commit: `c25b1eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c25b1eb4d77ceedd3e90e33247e5b7f3b7434413>`_

[BUGFIX] Reset class loader after recompiling proxies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The class loader holds a list of available proxy classes to prevent
unnecessary calls to the proxy class cache. This list is loaded early
in the bootstrap and needs to be refreshed when a sub request changed
the proxies.

Fixes: FLOW-309

* Commit: `24c772c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/24c772c0041e3e7e71b28519b4508fdd1ff01440>`_

[BUGFIX] Support composer ``replace`` directive
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Packages that are required but were replaced by using ``replace`` (see
https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#replace) in ``composer.json``
would to load with Flow as the replaced package would have no name
in the package map.
Ignoring the dependency is no problem as we do not use it anywhere
where replaced packages could be important.

This is a bugfix that should be replaced with a more robust solution in
a future Flow version. For example by not trying to match composer
requirements to Flow packages.

Fixes: FLOW-287

* Commit: `ac278f0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ac278f01043949bd064198aabc58fce494194262>`_

[BUGFIX] Filenames need to be rawurlencoded
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The new resource management does not urlencode filenames of resources
in URLs. This leads to invalid URLs for file paths/names containing
special characters or spaces.

This patch fixes the issue by applying ``rawurlencode()`` to all path
segments in ``FileSystemTarget::getPublicStaticResourceUri()`` and
``FileSystemTarget::getPublicPersistentResourceUri()``

Fixes: FLOW-321

* Commit: `52fdf44 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/52fdf4486fd8a96bfd7f565280406cf2771c1428>`_

[BUGFIX] Use rawurl(de|en)code in path segments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

According to RFC 3986 the space character has to be percent
encoded (%20) which is correctly done by ``rawurlencode``.
Using ``urlencode`` will lead to spaces being encoded as ``+`` signs
which is technically incorrect for path segments and should only happen
for query string values.

* Commit: `ada82e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ada82e5d1c88ff53eb2a968b09f5a44c8176b29d>`_

[TASK] Decrease session GC probability to 1% (was 30%)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Garbage collection of expired sessions should occur less often since
it's trigger for every third request right now on average. A 1% value
matches the PHP default value and should be sufficient for most setups.

Resolves: FLOW-146

* Commit: `c253748 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c253748c04e7e0c32ba95a14243a835ab24c5e07>`_

[BUGFIX] 1st level cache for ``QueryResult::count()``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Counting the results of the ``QueryResultInterface`` proxy that is
returned by Repository finder methods always executed a ``COUNT query``,
even if the results have been fetched or counted already.

With this patch the number of results is cached as soon as the
result is initialized and/or counted once.

Fixes: FLOW-326

* Commit: `0463ac2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0463ac2198ebe09dab5cc0975b380757139f2222>`_

[TASK] Update "Quickstart" tutorial
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the Quickstart tutorial to be in sync with recent Flow changes.

Resolves: FLOW-298

* Commit: `0c8c6a9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0c8c6a933acbfe426f7629432b9620c52bdbba67>`_

[TASK] Support dynamic return types for PhpStorm IDE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds configuration for the PhpStorm IDE so it can infer the
return type of the get() method in ObjectManagerInterface.

* Commit: `35aa985 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/35aa9859fce5aec088aa31e39ae4e010b7958e73>`_

[BUGFIX] Accept incoming HTTPS headers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes a check from ``Http\\Headers`` that prevented any header
starting with "HTTP".

Background:
A recent version of Google Chrome seems to send a ``HTTPS`` header
for requests via SSL (see
https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=501095).
This header translates to ``$_SERVER['HTTP_HTTPS']`` which triggered
the exception.

Fixes: FLOW-324

* Commit: `749431c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/749431c001f2546edde390444e608d292903f92b>`_

[TASK] Tweak doc comments in two classes.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1f733dc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1f733dcdb0f7c5b3b41cb1c5d028d1bc14c7267f>`_

[BUGFIX] Failing unit test in ``XliffModelTest``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Regression of `I3b5f7e06eca6a2e7e7aa31148c1d031295964c92`
which didn't adjust the test accordingly.

* Commit: `b83f1a2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b83f1a270271a31c224deb2a8f118926d4b47fb6>`_

[TASK] Lower log level for I18n sub package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change lower the log level of the I18n package from LOG_WARNING
to LOG_DEBUG.

* Commit: `ace4cd8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ace4cd8af244b1262aa49a7d561cd476c92d3791>`_

[BUGFIX] Clear PHP Opcode Caches in Caching, PackageManager and ConfigurationManager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This solves a lot of bugs when people use a wrongly configured
opcode cache (e.g. part of Bitnami MAMP stack).

Check the ticket for further background and how I could reproduce
the error on Bitnami MAMP stack.

Thanks to the TYPO3 CMS project for inspiration on the solution!

Resolves: FLOW-320

(cherry picked from commit ad3b949d65dc2f1d585a28119452692a153f2f4f)

* Commit: `fb0be1d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/fb0be1d7be3ea31143848574f53399f45e11e79d>`_

[BUGFIX] Make ``resource://`` URIs work with 40 character Package Keys
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Flow ``ResourceStreamWrapper`` transparently handles resource URLs
in the formats ``resource://<SHA1>`` (referring to the SHA1 hash of a
Flow Resource) and ``resource://Package.Key/some/path`` (referring to
a local file path relative to the specified package's Resources
directory).

Currently the detection of a SHA1 hash is unreliably only checking for
the string length being 40 characters. If a Package Key happens to be
exactly 40 characters long, static resources can't be loaded.
This change fixes the issue by replacing the ``strlen`` check with a
simple regular expression lookup that only accepts valid SHA1 hashes.

Fixes: FLOW-250

* Commit: `32afbfd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/32afbfde044869a5b20c02349db221c1206a614e>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix warning about undefined index in Autowiring
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Autowiring annotation did not check the existence the existence of
the value key, leading to a warning, followed by an exception, when
the annotation was used like::

  Autowiring(enable=false)

instead of::

  Autowiring(false)

and the ReflectionService was asked for reflection data on such a class.

The same problem could affect Proxy annotation, so it is fixed as well.

* Commit: `0e33477 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0e3347781903cb1dfc2db2861cfe23670511c2e5>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent creation of too many directories for resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently resource files are stored by splitting the ``SHA1`` hash
into chunks of 5 characters in order to prevent the creation of too
many files per directory (for performance reasons).
This has been implemented with the new "Multi-Storage / Multi-Target
Resource Management" (see Ia2b47b4070a2dfabf4833bf1f0f3967ba3b032a7).

The drawback of the current implementation is that it leads to the
creation of a directory per file which strains the file system, too.

With this change a persistent resource will no longer be stored in::

  Data/Persistent/c828d/0f88c/e197b/e1aff/7cc2e/5e86b/12442/41ac6/c828d0f88ce197be1aff7cc2e5e86b1244241ac6

But::

  Data/Persistent/c/8/2/8/c828d0f88ce197be1aff7cc2e5e86b1244241ac6

leading to a tremendously reduced amount of folders to be created.

This also adjusts the path of *published* resources from::

  /_Resources/Persistent/c828d/0f88c/e197b/e1aff/7cc2e/5e86b/12442/41ac6/The-File-Name.ext

to::

  /_Resources/Persistent/c/8/2/8/c828d0f88ce197be1aff7cc2e5e86b1244241ac6/The-File-Name.ext

Note: This is only true, if the ``subdivideHashPathSegment`` is set
for the corresponding ``PublishingTarget``. Otherwise the path is not
changed.

Related: FLOW-294

* Commit: `c960cbb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c960cbb9aba79aba5ac7ae88e5667b99edd062d8>`_

[TASK] Show expected targetType on "Object not found" errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the ``PersistentObjectConverter`` cannot find an object by
given identity the error message shows the identity but not the
expected oject type. Adding it helps a lot in debugging such errors.

* Commit: `c7dace4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c7dace4025ac953f4ee58874e6def996539bfd43>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow explicit privileges for ``Everybody`` role
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``TYPO3.Flow:Everybody`` role that is always active by design gets
an ``ABSTAIN`` permission for all defined ``PrivilegeTargets`` so that
permission to restricted privileges is not granted by default.

Due to a bug this ``ABSTAIN`` permission was also set when a privilege
was explicitly configured for the ``Everybody`` role as soon as the
same ``PrivilegeTarget`` was used for another role, effectively
overriding the permission.

This change allows for explicitly allowing or denying privileges to the
``Everybody`` role. It also adds some unit tests for the
``PolicyService``.

Fixes: FLOW-308

* Commit: `0872cf7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/0872cf75a0242c1921d4824c80f77dc783b60efd>`_

[TASK] Add missing changelogs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e0580d7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e0580d7fe3a921a57e8e4842ba702d4459392aa6>`_

[TASK] Fix rST rendering warnings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3da1e60 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3da1e60db11e4dbc69d1fa30d96e1efd4ff204b9>`_

[TASK] Show version and release in front matter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `47aff35 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/47aff35ea048c5ea54342bf35b0dd7a672f778ac>`_

[TASK] Simplify appendix TOC generation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `224d75b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/224d75b8878963446b5939959936796dd3cff30b>`_

[TASK] Rename Index.rst to index.rst
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is our workaround for an issue with rtfd.org so the documentation
can be browsed when it has been rendered there.

(See https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/1279 for details.)

* Commit: `36020fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/36020fdff56cfb999ac3e3ccc4633363d09d5ddf>`_

[TASK] Switch to plain Sphinx build configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Switches to a more standard setup for rendering rST using Sphinx. A
simple ``make html`` renders the documentation, if sphinx is installed.

The ``conf.py`` contains a tweak to allow using the RTD theme without
confusing the renderer over at RDT itself.

* Commit: `daa8645 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/daa864505197f3caba7b968f3819e48c26492689>`_

[BUGFIX] Relax YAML schema to work with PECL parser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the `Objects.yaml` schema so that::

  ./flow configuration:validate

does not complain about::

 Objects.TYPO3.Flow.DateTime.autowiring -> expected: type=string found: type=boolean

Background:
The PECL YAML parser interprets the strings "on" and "off" as booleans
so we need to adjust the schema accordingly.

* Commit: `9bd0edb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/9bd0edbe1439c6021f6e7483c272ec66ac78bb14>`_

[BUGFIX] ReflectionService should use normalized simple types
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The method parameter and property type reflection should contain
type names for simple types that are already normalized so you can
rely on that in comparisons later on. The method `expandType` now
normalizes the type if it detects a simple type.

* Commit: `db7b57c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/db7b57c22e281d43939b003c4244079986028e9f>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust YAML schema to recent changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Make ignoredClasses for debugger
configurable in settings" feature
(If4a692168d317cbcb7527fb28ebb113705f7c500) adjusting the YAML schema.

Related: NEOS-1140

* Commit: `d97f6d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d97f6d0705285d551d3996692e55f444e7d8abf3>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust YAML schema to recent changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Centralized Neos user domain service"
feature (I8a4c7010e25842583538e32dc8ef9cd851f306b4)
adjusting the YAML schema.

Related: NEOS-962

* Commit: `e362059 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e362059222022d68676daa0c49e4be771af439de>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust YAML schema to recent changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Make custom Doctrine mapping types
configurable" feature (Iab0f14117b30a4924a7947af44b9516c241912da)
adjusting the YAML schema.

This also tweaks the existing schema rules according to our CGL.

* Related: `#33838 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/33838>`_
* Commit: `1cf6b11 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1cf6b11defddbc366091900663e92926229f91d5>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust YAML schema to "Persistent Caches"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to the "Persistent Caches" feature
(I0e18122d74807a75c6e544c5074c8e924e21c649) adjusting the YAML schema.

Related: FLOW-261

* Commit: `23fccaa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/23fccaa04c06f989dece376396e3dd388af59b1b>`_

[BUGFIX] EntityPrivilege expressions should be trimmed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The EelEvaluator trims expressions before parsing as spaces at the
beginning or end might break the parser for no good reason. Same
is done in the ``EntityPrivilegeExpressionParser`` now.

* Commit: `281db4f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/281db4f45afe8cdea1435b02c1245348adb9f731>`_

[BUGFIX] Controller changes trigger AOP class rebuild
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a pragmatic fix to avoid clearing all caches when
you add an action to a protected controller. Controllers will now
be watched by the FileMonitor to trigger rebuilding the policy
information.

* Commit: `f326e56 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f326e5662bd87d1d3394c6e7615792481926db55>`_

[TASK] Improve PackageManager speed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The main improvement is the addition of a first level cache for
composer manifest data that was read once to avoid reading the
files multiple times.

Additionally the package path is reused in the ``PackageFactory``
to reduce the amount of concatinated path segments.

* Commit: `2c09a14 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/2c09a14946ce67ba3cbffe9b033b64dd2c45d082>`_

[TASK] Use StringFrontend for HashService cache
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The use of StringFrontend was intended, but not configured in
Caches.yaml, so a VariableFrontend was used instead for the persistent
cache.

* Commit: `a2bb86d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a2bb86d5abb906ee64c9df38c2e5802340f7bbf4>`_

[FEATURE] Color support for core migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change allows core migrations to output colored texts.
This is especially useful for errors and warnings that are likely
to be overlooked due to the verbosity of core migration output.

Note:

This feature requires the ``posix`` PHP extension to be active
(``ANSICON``/``ConEmuANSI`` support on Windows).

* Related: `FLOW-223 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-223>`_
* Commit: `ab0fcd7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ab0fcd7f1a0630d7b3b558ea60c0728015cbf4b0>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow core migrations to be applied to non-git-repositories
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allows core migrations to be applied to packages that are not under
git version control.

With this change the log for core migrations is no longer tacked
through the git log history but with a new section
``applied-flow-migrations`` in the ``extra`` property of the composer
manifest.
This allows for keeping track of the core migration log independently
from a git repository.

The git log migration history is still respected and will be imported
into the ``composer.json`` file of a package as soon as core migrations
are executed.

This change also introduces a new flag ``--force`` that can be
specified in order to apply migrations even if the affected package is
not part of a git repository or contains local changes.

Background:

This is not marked FEATURE because it fixes a severe bug that prevented
migrations to be applied when having multiple packages in the same git
repository.

* Fixes: `FLOW-223 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-223>`_
* Commit: `b087d60 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/b087d60f760590dd7474c48aea0beb4e82b81dc1>`_

[BUGFIX] Value objects get cascade deleted by default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Value objects are by nature not bound to single parent entities and exist by their own.
Currently, Flow automatically annotates relations to value objects as cascade='all' and
orphanRemoval=true. Doctrine itself states that orphanRemoval should only be set when
the related object is privately owned and not reused by other entities, which is not
generally true for value objects.
See http://doctrine-orm.readthedocs.org/en/latest/reference/working-with-associations.html#orphan-removal

This leads to exceptions when entities with a relation to an value object are deleted.

This change addresses that by setting cascading to 'persist' only for value objects and
not setting orphanRemoval on relations to value objects by default.

* Fixes: `FLOW-296 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-296>`_
* Commit: `786d002 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/786d002b8d67541f261970b21a264d9153918d71>`_

[BUGFIX] Tabs should be allowed in front of classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the proxy class ``Compiler`` uses a regular
expression that only allows spaces before the ``class``
keyword. So a class declaration:

  abstract<TAB>class Example ...

will not be correctly detected and compiled. Changing the
expression to allow any kind of whitespace character fixes
these edgecases.

* Fixes: `FLOW-86 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-86>`_
* Commit: `10e8a7f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/10e8a7f71092e8c411f31d81a049716c728617a8>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix permission of temporary files when importing resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When importing a site on ``Microsoft Windows 7/8`` an exception can be
thrown due to insufficient file permissions.
This change makes sure that the file permissions are fixed before a
temporary resource file is moved to its final location.

* Related: `NEOS-1334 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1334>`_

(cherry picked from commit 3cdac302dd1d2e04346493cb9926a2ade82ce01a)

* Commit: `4faeef9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4faeef93cc2670ac2c96f5d163a125de17a09fc8>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't skip schema validation for empty configurations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When performing a configuration validation via::

 ./flow configuration:validate

The validation was interrupted with an exception if one of the
parsed configuration types is empty (for example because no
``Views.yaml`` file existed).
This patch fixes the issue by replacing the exception with a
notice that can be outputted with the ``verbose`` flag.

* Fixes: `FLOW-332 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-332>`_

(cherry picked from commit 3d937c392ef6dd15382ad442b63cf411d999d132)

* Commit: `938e10c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/938e10ce521ae119bdec2696cdc22513911d704b>`_

[BUGFIX] Do not cast NULL to empty string in PropertyConditionGenerator
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the escaping of NULL values, the resulting SQL query did
a check against an empty string, not NULL values.

The PropertyConditionGenerator now holds the raw parameter values
to check against NULL values.

* Fixes: `FLOW-339 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-339>`_
* Commit: `8b2800f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/8b2800f15fe2f5a50e030d4bc9a377258a928c77>`_

[TASK] Add example configuration to disable the routing cache
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

While developing route part handlers it is really useful to disable
the routing cache temporarily. This change adds an example configuration
in composer essentials installed using the installer. This can then
easily be used to create a local Caches.yaml

* Commit: `85e9312 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/85e9312fe521c150619bfcba5c6b58e20758dc97>`_

[BUGFIX] Relax YAML schema to allow custom ``requestPatterns``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the ``./flow configuration:validate`` command to verify that
the settings conform to the configuration schema, Flow complains with::

 Settings.TYPO3.Flow.security.authentication.providers.Typo3BackendProvider.requestPatterns.<pattern>
 -> This property is not allowed here, check the spelling if you think it belongs here.

when using custom requestPatterns.

This change relaxes the YAML schema to allow arbitrary requestPatterns.

* Fixes: `FLOW-344 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-344>`_

(cherry picked from commit d40e4b349c893580a10fda379358ad8bc8aaf0d3)

* Commit: `25cd942 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/25cd942664a0fdc919845030873c012bd080aa14>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow Aggregate Roots to extend non entity classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When an entity with a repository (= Aggregate Root) extends a
Plain Old PHP Class (no entity) the ``ReflectionService`` produced
a ``Undefined index`` notice when building the Class Schema.

This change fixes this by skipping parent classes that are not
persistable.

* Fixes: `FLOW-316 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-316>`_
* Commit: `f531eaa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f531eaa6c48b07a63864553e90b46d1e441f4915>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent depletion of inodes during migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of moving all files to the legacy location, creating
many folders, the migration now moves resources directly
to the final destination.

The second migration is a fallback for Flow installations
that are not fully migrated yet.

* Fixes: `FLOW-330 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-330>`_
* Commit: `4d25a7d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/4d25a7d06753463ad8631a0b0dde26e3956f277e>`_

[BUGFIX] When moving resource files, check if expected file exists
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The moving of resource files in migrations Version20150611154419 and
Version20150611154421 did always happen, even if the expected target
did already exist. This lead to bogus warnings when a file was used by
more than one Resource instance.

On top of that, empty directories were never properly removed.

* Commit: `ac90a76 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ac90a765ff3d0a511cdf9e4cff8844bbad51f620>`_

[BUGFIX] Better moving of files in migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The migration that moves resource files around (Version20141118174722
for PostgreSQL) did not consider the case of multiple resources using
the same file. This change adjusts the code so it behaves like the
corresponding migration for MySQL, which has better handling for this.

* Fixes: `FLOW-323 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-323>`_
* Commit: `030073e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/030073e31ee216b10946c5d4cd4b98fb99ba2cb3>`_

[BUGFIX] Correctly close all streams opened from a Resource
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The resource opens a stream (e.g. file handle for the file
storage) when calling getStream() using the underyling storage. It's the
callers responsibility to close the stream after consuming the content.

This change adds some missing fclose() calls and adds an error check to
the ArrayConverter that results in better error messages when dealing
with broken resources.

* Fixes: `FLOW-341 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-341>`_
* Commit: `e1eb8ac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e1eb8ac471367022763a803d1d8c878585bfadfd>`_

[BUGFIX] Re-enable logging of ``Router::route()`` calls
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the implementation of `HTTP Components` we accidentally disabled
logging for calls to ``Router::route()``.

This patch adds the ``log()`` calls again.

Background:

The regression has been introduced with "[FEATURE] HTTP components for
handling requests" (Iac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40).

* Fixes: `FLOW-338 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-338>`_
* Related: `#52064 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52064>`_

* Commit: `a9c99fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a9c99fdb6ecde0b37b9a3895a84b4f99e6a91575>`_

[TASK] Do not proxy MethodPrivilege for performance
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As the method privilege is used rather often in a request even
simple method calls add up. The (unecessary) proxy for the
``MethodPrivilege`` adds some overhead in form of ``array_key_exists``
calls in the __constructor inherited from the ``AbstractPrivilege``.
Disabling the proxy removes this overhead.

* Fixes: `FLOW-337 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-337>`_
* Commit: `44e3b7f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/44e3b7f63317e3e432068637bf5af89058ae2323>`_

[TASK] Make PHP the default language for code blocks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation now uses PHP as default language for code blocks,
so that even when using just two colons to start a code-block it is
highlighted.

* Commit: `3aec362 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3aec3626af174c819e0da005fc5fd9fc07dbde61>`_

[BUGFIX] Behat Subprocess command should be properly escaped
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The behat subprocess command should be properly escaped to work
with paths that contain special characters.

* Commit: `09f6265 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/09f6265e01ad5eda6236f936511cd7f33d40b84e>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw 404 exception when updating a non-existing resource
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Specifying a non-existing identity when converting a persistent
object using the ``PersistentObjectConverter`` the ``PropertyMapper``
tries to apply conversions on the ``TargetNotFoundError`` instead of
returning the error directly.

Background:
The reason for this regression is the new ``TargetNotFoundError`` that
has been introduced with I5231ccddaef1a6b49e62bb29bdd3ff99dc2bb994 in
order to be able to handle that case more gracefully. Previously an
exception was thrown directly.

* Fixes: `FLOW-333 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-333>`_
* Related: `FLOW-197 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-197>`_

* Commit: `a6e00d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/a6e00d00a77247423b2c3ff1312b2b49c5628c59>`_

[TASK] Add support for sphinx-autobuild in docs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds support for sphinx-autobuild, which watches the Documentation
directory and automatically re-renders docs when changed. This allows
for a livepreview while editing the docs. It also serves the pages via
the python-livereload server so they will be automatically refreshed
when the docs are re-rendered.

To use it, install `sphinx-autobuild`_::

    pip install sphinx-autobuild

To use livepreview just run ``make livehtml`` instead of ``make html``.
Then, visit http://127.0.0.1:8000 to see the livereload version of the
docs.

``make livehtml`` renders the docs exactly the same as ``make html``
does. A ``livereload.js`` script does get injected, but not by the
rendering process. The script gets injected on the fly by
python-livereload when serving the pages.

.. _sphinx-autobuild: https://github.com/GaretJax/sphinx-autobuild

* Commit: `6816685 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/681668508e192616365809e480e859deede52613>`_

[TASK] Add reference to the original file path in proxy class footer
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change add a PHP comment with the complete path to the original file
path. This is really useful for debug proxy, because detecting the location
of the real code is not easy.

* Commit: `c6b7347 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/c6b734770e7ae6a43b344b677f3ba17957afd329>`_

[TASK] Make PHP highlighting work for snippets
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the "official" hack to turn on startinline for all php
codeblocks whether they're a snippet or a full file.

Sphinx and docutils don't support setting the startinline option for
pygments. That means that snippets of PHP code that don't have
"<?php ?>" don't get highlighted. The hack was documented here:
http://mbless.de/blog/2015/03/02/php-syntax-highlighting-in-sphinx.html
https://github.com/fabpot/sphinx-php

* Commit: `19e5110 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/19e5110df6e93115d09717a251b5b007f8dfafbb>`_

[TASK] Use a separate logger for I18n and missing translations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a separate logger for I18n related messages,
especially when translation labels are missing.

* Resolves: `FLOW-329 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-329>`_
* Commit: `1984c25 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/1984c2554a846cd966eab9321c53197ce5b3f944>`_

[TASK] Merge Eel I18n helper into TranslationHelper in Flow
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The I18n helper cannot reside in EEL as it creates a hard dependency
on Flow that we want to avoid. Instead it should be merged into the
TranslationHelper in Flow that already existed.

* Commit: `2265108 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/22651081fccd86b88fd94ac8fbf842b238ec5804>`_

[!!!][TASK] Increase ``PackageStates`` version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Flow 3.0 depends on some new 3rd party package versions. Because the
name of some of those packages have been changed the casing, this
leads to exceptions like::

 Package "doctrine.instantiator" is already registered as "Doctrine.Instantiator"

By increasing the version, the ``PackageStates.php`` file will be re-
generated automatically, removing obsolete package keys.

This is a breaking change because it will re-activate any previously
disabled packages!
If you want to avoid that, temporarily move affected packages into a
separate directory or disable them after upgrading.

* Related: `FLOW-156 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-156>`_
* Commit: `d9287ff <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d9287ff271215a49cd68cb589038b20867236947>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix site locking
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Site locking is prone to race conditions and should initialize much
earlier in the request and use a reliable locking method.

This change moves the Locking to be beginning of the ``Bootstrap``
``Sequence`` and changes the locking method to use ``flock`` which
is less prone to race conditions.

* Fixes: `FLOW-348 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-348>`_
* Commit: `f1968d2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/f1968d261cab79d97bf9d5b720027945c9a3e758>`_

[BUGFIX] PersistentObjectConverter should correctly detect class
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``PersistentObjectConverter`` needs to know the class of an object
after conversion, as the object can be a doctrine proxy the use of
get_class is not correct and replaced by the TypeHandling utility which
resolves the correct name even with a doctrine proxy.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1440 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1440>`_
* Commit: `5a2c11a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/5a2c11a0425bcff2da53e15a1184698ff33ac682>`_

[TASK] Remove ChangeLogs for other branches from documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Having the ChangeLogs of all previous branches only balloons the
documentation without a real gain.

* Commit: `e17b8e8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/e17b8e816af0dcedb5f77dfdbc64c4948d9225c3>`_

[TASK] Move Doc Config from DocTools package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the doc configuration from the DocTools package to the Flow
package so that it can be changed per branch. To see the DocTools
change, refer to I9b56df70f6b5140b41b41893a8fb6f516b8f1843

* Commit: `ce63ffe <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/ce63ffe569d2ca08a3944b1c198542d842b0ebc1>`_

[TASK] Update "Getting Started" tutorial
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the "Getting Started" tutorial to be in sync with recent Flow
changes and best practices.

* Resolves: `FLOW-299 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-299>`_
* Commit: `d6912c1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/d6912c1f3170213dd69011341a93fd0897c07868>`_

[BUGFIX] Respect configured "baseUri" in resource URIs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As all resource targets are initialized during bootstrap, the
``initalizeObject`` lifecycle method is called before the http
request has any configured ``baseUri`` set, therefore the absolute
URI did not respect the configuration setting.
By resolving the baseUri lazily we can avoid that.

* Fixes: `FLOW-354 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-354>`_
* Commit: `3affe97 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/3affe979c38a70b0d9f377a6cc6da588aed4bfe7>`_

[BUGFIX] Cache flush force should be possible in all contexts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Force flushing caches is a compiletime action and as such could
trigger locking of the site in production context. This leads to strange
locking errors which were not planned for. With the change to fix it
``I8152343764795c4c5a407547d6094d16655c7b32`` a regression was introduced
as the LockManager is only available in Production context so an
exception was triggered in other contexts when force flushing caches.
With this change the context is checked before trying to access the
``LockManager``.

* Related: `FLOW-348 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-348>`_
* Fixes: `FLOW-350 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-350>`_

* Commit: `105f634 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/105f634eed3db09f4e2f59ee8be7cbfc2310ee87>`_

[BUGFIX] Unlock site after force-flushing caches
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `53d81e1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/53d81e1b8c165135441f71c2636a2877118b58b6>`_

[TASK] Fix version in conf.py
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `63e11be <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Flow.git/commit/63e11be5994e8cc120ed3ee191bec86fb8b127fa>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Fluid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Undo requirements adjustment from CI job
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The release CI job adjusted requirements dutifully, but the result was
not as expected, because we humans missed some needed changes.

* Commit: `ef57493 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/ef57493729c8d0e43f41c63252f1683a01ecc1bc>`_

[TASK] Mark recent core migrations applied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit doesn't contain any changes, it simply marks recent
migrations applied so that::

  ./flow flow:core:migrate --status

won't show any open migrations for this package.

* Commit: `6ef62c0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/6ef62c01d1f9dadcc204df283489f763adcb9f61>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unit test in AbstractFormViewHelperTest test case
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to I80e7e664e7a1fa41dc36bdf89e331086c6815f78 that
fixes a unit test.

Related: FLOW-213

* Commit: `5820a1e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5820a1ea179d4a9cb3e78c1acdeaacb76cc65039>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix retrieval of property mapping results if formObjectName is not specified
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to I18c99dcd057435a15ebdf2faf55c7cbfc83cb47f that
fixes an issue that lead to ``getMappingResultsForProperty()`` returning
an empty result if no ``formObjectName`` was specified.

Related: FLOW-215

* Commit: `65c449e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/65c449e4e9ae52f7c8555d6cfd17135e3bd5cbca>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Submitted form data has precedence over value argument
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the behavior of all Form ViewHelpers so that any
submitted value is redisplayed even if a "value" argument has been
specified.

Being able to specify the "value" argument in Form ViewHelpers is a
good way to pre-format the initial value::

    <f:form.textfield property="price"
        value="{product.price -> f:format.number()}" />

The issue with this, however, was that upon re-display of the form due
to property-mapping or validation errors the value argument had
precedence over the previously submitted value.

This is a breaking change if you expect the previous behavior of form
ViewHelpers always being pre-populated with the specified value
attribute / bound object property even when re-displaying the form upon
validation errors.
Besides this change deprecates
``AbstractFormFieldViewHelper::getValue()``. If you call that method in
your custom ViewHelpers you should use
``AbstractFormFieldViewHelper::getValueAttribute()`` instead and call
``AbstractFormFieldViewHelper::addAdditionalIdentityPropertiesIfNeeded()``
explicitly if the ViewHelper might be bound to (sub)entities.

Fixes: FLOW-213

* Commit: `c2abfe9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/c2abfe9741517bbb6a416bc26f4fa733fde50720>`_

[BUGFIX] Highlight validation errors for unbound Form ViewHelpers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes sure that the error class attribute is set on
validation/property-mapping errors even if the "property" argument
is not specified on the respective Form ViewHelper.

Fixes: FLOW-215

* Commit: `e4a06ae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/e4a06ae54e3cbf1b5484c3d620ffca9dda5fde8f>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix risky unit tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts two unit tests that are marked "risky"/fail when
running PhpUnit in ``strict`` mode.

* Commit: `8d1496a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/8d1496afed84f59f18b32e8bc0bbeead173d2f1e>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Consistent escaping behavior
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a major rework of the interceptors that are currently mostly
used to automatically apply ``htmlspecialchars()`` to dynamic strings
in Fluid templates.

This is a breaking change because it affects the basic escaping
behavior of Fluid:

The escaping interceptor is now always enabled by default. Previously
this was only the case if the request format was unknown or equal to
"html".
To disable the automatic escaping add ``{escapingEnabled=false}``
anywhere in the template or (preferably) use the raw ViewHelper::

  {objectAccess -> f:format.raw()}
  {x:some.viewHelper() -> f:format.raw()}
  {objectAccess -> x:some.viewHelper() -> f:format.raw()}
  <f:format.raw><x:some.viewHelper /></f:format.raw>

Furthermore the ``escapingInterceptorEnabled`` flag in the
``AbstractViewHelper`` has been deprecated in favor of a new flag
``escapeChildren``. The behavior of the flag is still the same though
and the old name will still work.

Lastly the *output* of ViewHelpers is now also escaped by default!
Previously ViewHelper authors had to take care of that themselves
which was error-prone and less flexible.
The escaping of a custom ViewHelper can be disabled by setting the new
flag ``escapeOutput`` to FALSE in the ViewHelper class.
But this should only be necessary if:

a) The result of ``$this->renderChildren()`` is used directly as output
   (child nodes are escaped by default).
b) The ViewHelper renders HTML code.
   *Beware:* In that case the output will need manual data sanitization
   ViewHelpers extending ``AbstractTagBasedViewHelper`` will already
   have the flag set.

All provided ViewHelpers are adjusted accordingly with one exception:
The output of URI-ViewHelpers such as ``uri.action`` or ``widget.uri``
is now escaped for consistency reasons. If those are used to render HTML
tag attributes the new behavior is desired because those will be
properly encoded now. If the result of an URI ViewHelper is used
directly, for example within some inline JavaScript the new escaping
might break. In this case the raw ViewHelper can be used, as described
above like done in the ``Index.html`` template of the ``Autocomplete``
widget.

Affected packages can be adjusted automatically by running provided core
migration::

  ./flow core:migrate --version 20150214130800

Depends: If66a2dff21b239963728963f15437599a8442f72

Resolves: FLOW-26

* Commit: `3506ba6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/3506ba639f2efbd367a59feab9a396b8a697361b>`_

[FEATURE] Allow usage of "else" argument with child nodes in AbstractConditionViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This feature allows for mixing usage of arguments and child node
rendering for all ``AbstractConditionViewHelpers``. This allows for
writing::

  <f:if condition="{products}" else="There are no products">
    <f:for each="{products}">
      <!-- ... -->
    </f:for>
  </f:if>

To achieve what previously had to be written as::

  <f:if condition="{products}">
    <f:then>
      <f:for each="{products}">
        <!-- ... -->
      </f:for>
    </f:then>
    <f:else>
      There are no products
    </f:else>
  </f:if>

Resolves: FLOW-200

* Commit: `18f28e0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/18f28e0a73d831ef502e63746f4cb5f815c6f1eb>`_

[BUGFIX] Render Form CSRF token field only if authenticated
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently ``CSRF`` tokens are only enforced if an account is
authenticated. But the form ViewHelper rendered the corresponding
hidden field for all forms with method != "GET".

Background:

Rendering the hidden field did not have a side effect before but as
CSRF tokens only make sense with an active session,
``Security\\Context::getCsrfProtectionToken()`` will be adjusted to start
a session when called. Therefore the token should only be fetched if it's
really required.

Related: FLOW-130

* Commit: `3ee880c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/3ee880c9b1b812b4bc20162a1059b18699c0d74a>`_

[FEATURE] "account" option for security.ifHasRole view helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a new option "account" for the ifHasRole view
helper which allows for specifying an account other than the currently
authenticated account.

Additionally the "role" option now allows roles to be specified as
Role objects.

Resolves: FLOW-182

* Commit: `6f3f903 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/6f3f9030aea25b4ec88929cc37b4c93762ddf9a7>`_

[TASK] Allow registering namespaces multiple times unless there are conflicts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the ``TemplateParser`` throws an exception if the same
namespace identifier is registered multiple times.

With this change this exception is skipped if the repeated
registration does not pose conflicts, i.e. points to the same
PHP namespace as previous mappings.

Background:
This is a follow-up to I965cb54c3125f80e7a5ae46ede72ee9027ed006e that
registers all package keys as Fluid namespaces.
Due to some unrelated bug ``PackageManager::getActivePackages()`` can
return the same package key twice leading to an exception:
"#1224241246: Namespace identifier "xyz" is already registered.".

Related: FLOW-151

* Commit: `0a60c85 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/0a60c85b7bc68a507f810734360892471761f6f5>`_

[TASK] Add missing line breaks at the end of files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most of TYPO3 Fluid's PHP files end with a line break (empty line).
This change adds this line break at the end of PHP files if it is missing.

This is not part of the CGL but increases consistency in this
area.

This regular expression was used to add the empty lines:

Search::

 (})\\Z(?!\\n)

Replace::

 $1\\n

Fixes: FLOW-161

* Commit: `b532aee <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/b532aeed850bcebde5807f413eb063d2cf98eaa3>`_

Revert "[!!!][FEATURE] Consistent escaping behavior"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit ebc454f5b6d55a21bee940d0ab48e6dc534bf9b5
because that change breaks FE and BE rendering of Neos.

* Commit: `e54d350 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/e54d3504e58f21bf569f2bc831fc5a582a7c432a>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Consistent escaping behavior
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a major rework of the interceptors that are currently mostly
used to automatically apply ``htmlspecialchars()`` to dynamic strings
in Fluid templates.

This is a breaking change because it affects the basic escaping
behavior of Fluid:

The escaping interceptor is now always enabled by default. Previously
this was only the case if the request format was unknown or equal to
"html".
To disable the automatic escaping add ``{escapingEnabled=false}``
anywhere in the template or (preferably) use the raw ViewHelper::

  {objectAccess -> f:format.raw()}
  {x:some.viewHelper() -> f:format.raw()}
  {objectAccess -> x:some.viewHelper() -> f:format.raw()}
  <f:format.raw><x:some.viewHelper /></f:format.raw>

Furthermore the ``escapingInterceptorEnabled`` flag in the
``AbstractViewHelper`` has been deprecated in favor of a new flag
``escapeChildren``. The behavior of the flag is still the same though
and the old name will still work.

Lastly the *output* of ViewHelpers is now also escaped by default!
Previously ViewHelper authors had to take care of that themselves
which was error-prone and less flexible.
The escaping of a custom ViewHelper can be disabled by setting the new
flag ``escapeOutput`` to FALSE in the ViewHelper class.
But this should only be necessary if:

a) The result of ``$this->renderChildren()`` is used directly as output
   (child nodes are escaped by default).
b) The ViewHelper renders HTML code.
   *Beware:* In that case the output will need manual data sanitization
   ViewHelpers extending ``AbstractTagBasedViewHelper`` will already
   have the flag set.

All provided ViewHelpers are adjusted accordingly with one exception:
The output of URI-ViewHelpers such as ``uri.action`` or ``widget.uri``
is now escaped for consistency reasons. If those are used to render HTML
tag attributes the new behavior is desired because those will be
properly encoded now. If the result of an URI ViewHelper is used
directly, for example within some inline JavaScript the new escaping
might break. In this case the raw ViewHelper can be used, as described
above like done in the ``Index.html`` template of the ``Autocomplete``
widget.

Resolves: FLOW-26

* Commit: `ebc454f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/ebc454f5b6d55a21bee940d0ab48e6dc534bf9b5>`_

[FEATURE] Configurable namespaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a signal to the ``TemplateParser`` that allows for
registering ViewHelper namespaces.

With I965cb54c3125f80e7a5ae46ede72ee9027ed006e that is used to
register all Flow keys of active packages as ViewHelper
namespaces.

Resolves: FLOW-151

* Commit: `77e9492 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/77e94925fcd546c6f072b06ca1bc5a841366d637>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Throw exception for unresolved namespaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change the Fluid parser now throws an exception when it comes
across an unknown ViewHelper namespace.

That is especially helpful if you forgot to import a namespace or
mistyped a ViewHelper name.

It is a breaking change if you rely on the previous behavior of
ignoring ViewHelpers with unknown namespaces.
In that case you can ignore all unknown namespaces with::

  {namespace *}

Specific namespaces can be ignored like this::

  {namespace xs*}  <!-- ignores namespaces starting with "xs" -->
  {namespace foo}  <!-- ignores the namespace "foo" -->

Resolves: FLOW-150

* Commit: `e7d2d6d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/e7d2d6d625aa40f2792c130345954e33101543e9>`_

[TASK] Streamline regular expression for Resource URLs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The regular expression to split templates finding resource URLs
is prone to breaking in case the match grows too long because it
has no boundaries. This change stops the match earlier, this also
massively increases the matching speed.

* Commit: `531dcd3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/531dcd318566e2bc9089c303e47a289b521f520b>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw helpful exception if ViewHelper class can't be resolved
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds some case sensitive checks for the resolved ViewHelper
class name in order to prevent misleading fatal errors.

Background:

Previously, if the user mis-spelled a ViewHelper, e.g. by typing
``<f:format.textField>`` instead of ``<f:format.textfield>``, the system
failed with a fatal error of the following form::

    Fatal error: Call to a member function getMethodParameters() on a non-object
    in .../Core/ViewHelper/AbstractViewHelper.php on line 349

The cause of this error is that the reflection service was not properly
injected into the ViewHelper, which happens because the class loader of Flow
loads the non-instrumented class instead of the instrumented one.

This, in turn, happens because ``Data/Temporary/.../AvailableProxyClasses.php``
(which was introduced in Ie09b4e8891b61b33fd9bba3627a8312be02b1486) contains
only correctly-spelled class names; making the classloader believe that it
is not responsible for the ViewHelper.

Fixes: FLOW-152

* Commit: `106f678 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/106f67839d4c8d5a0613bd0fb676f1c59684c06b>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix documentation (default vs. value) in TranslateViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation in the header of TranslateViewHelper didn't represent
the new naming of attributes. The former "default" is now called
"value".

Resolves: FLOW-77

* Commit: `083be4a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/083be4a388456b74c577be1d5ff3075d0cb73c09>`_

[TASK] Use Filesize utility functions in ByteViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``format.bytes`` ViewHelper to use the
``Utility\\Files::bytesToSizeString()`` function introduced with
I9b35d1b08c7cb1f41330d88f62fc1092e90880c6

Depends: I9b35d1b08c7cb1f41330d88f62fc1092e90880c6

* Commit: `5de85e6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5de85e6c2809a882a60b00c06708da31bf899ed2>`_

[TASK] Improve ViewHelper documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation of a few ViewHelpers is tweaked so it renders
correctly.

* Commit: `5c01538 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5c01538d143679a34f77cf06996cabf63258cbed>`_

[FEATURE] Provide option for resourced collection in upload view helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes allows for specifying the name of the resource collection
where the file should be uploaded to. If it is not specified, the default
persistent resources collection will be used.

Related: NEOS-787

* Commit: `d1dad4d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/d1dad4d40bdf2ab84b1db803aca03ff3cd67eeaf>`_

[TASK] Translate ViewHelper: Throw exception if current package can't be resolved
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``f:translate`` ViewHelper to throw an exception if the
package key can't be determined from the current request.

Related: NEOS-497

* Commit: `78a1155 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/78a11556081c4d1c17d00f4e57a2ed4f09d573e0>`_

[!!!] Remove usage of ReflectionService in ViewHelpers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``AbstractViewHelper`` now uses compile static to get all
needed information about the render method of ViewHelper implementations.

As the AbstractViewHelper doesn't use the ReflectionService
anymore it was removed. This is breaking if a ViewHelper implementation
relies on the fact that ``$this->reflectionService`` is available. A
code migration warns about the possible usage of it.

* Commit: `3adb3c3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/3adb3c3ded8ff90bbce1a0386a6a120fe0dde322>`_

[TASK] Adjustments for the new resource management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: FLOW-108

* Commit: `8419e53 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/8419e5329179a780b9bdedce7fec1f65dd0a94d8>`_

[TASK] Adjust to acl changes in Flow
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``security.ifAccess`` ViewHelper to the recent refactoring
of the Security Framework in TYPO3.Flow.
Namely the argument "resource" has been renamed to "privilegeTarget".

This change also provides a code migration that should adjust affected
Fluid templates. Make sure to run::

  ./flow core:migrate

in order to apply those changes.

Related: FLOW-11

* Commit: `fa99600 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/fa99600196bbb7241c2fcdf59384317f057e960d>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust code migration identifier pattern to contain the full timestamp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously code migrations are expected to have a class name with the
pattern ``Version<YYYYMMDDhhmm>`` and the unique identifier was
determined extracting the last 12 characters of the class name (which
are expected to be the timestamp).

This change adjusts existing code migrations to use the full timestamp in
order to establish the new guideline (note: those migrations still
return the old identifier so that they won't be applied again with a
new identifier).

Related: FLOW-110

* Commit: `5e4c9de <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/5e4c9de56116d3e96140d26cdf2da6ea9412d230>`_

[TASK] Defer variable-initialization in AbstractViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tweaks ``AbstractViewHelper::validateArguments()`` by deferring
a variable initialization until it's really used.

* Resolves: `#53805 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53805>`_
* Commit: `c3911bd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/c3911bdeb528202d8405240f0c2841a5d9319f0d>`_

[BUGFIX] Hidden checkbox fields are disabled correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Until now checkboxes that were disabled would still have their empty
hidden value be submitted, leading to checkbox values being overwritten.

This change correctly sets the hidden fields to the same disabled state
as the related field by adjusting the form viewhelper variable
'emptyHiddenFieldNames'.

Fixes: FLOW-255

* Commit: `00becdf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/00becdf378b884dc715d62ce26bbb2d49fefb3ff>`_

[TASK] Remove unused method parameter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1141ca4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/1141ca491fc908b481c7e4b0bf259a44a826cedf>`_

[BUGFIX] Stabilize "Consistent escaping behavior" core migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This tweaks the ``TYPO3.Fluid-20150214130800`` core migration to always
include the ViewHelper file before adding the ``escapeOutput`` flag.
Besides it now uses the ``PhpAnalyzer`` class to extract the ViewHelper
class name.

Background:
When executing core migrations the class loader might not be initialized
yet. This makes sure the ViewHelpers can be adjusted anyways.

Related: FLOW-26

* Commit: `fca7426 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/fca7426d8a9e7a5873a472bec36f9910c433bd6b>`_

[BUGFIX] Preselect active options in property bound Select ViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolution of FLOW-213 introduced a regression that in some cases
prevents the ``SelectViewHelper`` from pre-selecting property-bound
values.

Background:
The change I80e7e664e7a1fa41dc36bdf89e331086c6815f78 deprecated the
method ``AbstractFormFieldViewHelper::getValue()`` in favor of a newly
introduced method ``getValueAttribute()``. That method always converts
object values using the PersistenceManager. In case the object is not
known to the PersistenceManager it thus returns ``NULL`` leading to the
above issue when using the SelectViewHelper in "objectAccessorMode" with
the ``multiple`` argument.

Related: FLOW-213

* Commit: `2109546 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/21095469fc78583991f9c7d8358f57b9a0350910>`_

[TASK] Support for quoted keys in Fluid arrays
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The syntax for Fluid arrays is based on the JSON syntax, but up to now
it didn't support quoted arrays, so::

 {x:someViewHelper(arrayArgument: '{"foo": "bar"}')}

wouldn't parse.

With this change the parser is a little less strict for arrays allowing
the keys to be quoted with single or double quotes.
It also allows to use square brackets and dots within quoted keys::

 <x:someViewHelper arrayArgument="{'this[will]': 'work'}" />
 {x:someViewhelper(arrayArgument: '{"and.so": "will.this"}'}

Resolves: FLOW-248

* Commit: `dddf78b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/dddf78b7780bc211a9b525dfda5ad6d4fd3015fc>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix support for "value" argument on the form.upload ViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When specifying the ``value`` argument on the ``form.upload`` ViewHelper
the generated hidden field was named something like::

  object[property][__identity][originallySubmittedResource][__identity]

since the adjustments to the new Resource Management (see
Ic72a4ba780ebdef8b0940f3b9d20fa2c8840f834).

This change fixes the name to exclude the first "__identity". Besides it
fixes the behavior when specifying a "default resource" using the
``value`` argument:

* If a form is re-displayed due to validation errors, any originally
  transmitted resource will survive the re-submission.
* Otherwise, if a resource (or its identifier) is specified as "value"
  argument, that resource will be used by default
* Finally, when in "object accessor mode", the value of the bound
  property will be used as fallback.

Any newly uploaded file will of course overrule the hidden field as
before.

Related: FLOW-214

* Commit: `d0d7870 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/d0d787041669c59609cfcaa46ea067c64b66ed4e>`_

[TASK] Translate labels in paginate widget
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The previous / next labels in the paginate widget are replaced with
translations.

* Resolves: `#27516 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/27516>`_
* Commit: `e248e1b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/e248e1b3819ec49277ced6e9935a6f043c44e5e2>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix support for multi-part namespace identifiers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes support for namespaces containing dots.
Previously the ``TemplateParser`` skipped those when used in "shorthand
syntax" and something like::

 {foo.bar:baz()}

was never replaced.

Background:
This limitation is not new but it was easy to work around in previous
versions. Since Flow package keys are registered as namespace
identifiers (see FLOW-151) this issue became more urgent.

Fixes: FLOW-228

* Commit: `f7f125b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/f7f125bfe0c38414bf99fe2d6bd0d1cef96866b3>`_

[BUGFIX] Always respect property binding in hidden fields
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow up to the
``Submitted form data has precedence over value argument`` change
(I80e7e664e7a1fa41dc36bdf89e331086c6815f78) that had the nasty side
effect of breaking hidden fields bound to properties of a view model.

Before this fix, a template like::

  <f:form.hidden property="someProperty" />

Would lead to a hidden field with an empty ``value`` attribute.

Background:
The custom implementation of the ``getValueAttribute()`` in the
``HiddenViewHelper`` was missing the evaluation of
``getPropertyValue()``. This is now fixed for all of the form
ViewHelpers by making ``AbstractFormFieldViewHelper::getValueAttribute()``
more generic. The bug only really occurred for hidden fields though
because checkbox and radio fields require the ``value`` argument to be
specified explicitly.

Related: FLOW-213

* Commit: `ebb8fc6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/ebb8fc6ce2c33488ca8a6ab1b209a7db4e56a985>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix doc comment about string comparison in IfViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The inline documentation in the ``IfViewHelper`` states, that strings
can not be compared directly but arrays should be used as workaround.
This isn't true anymore since direct string comparison works.

Fixes: FLOW-328

* Commit: `7c4bafc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/7c4bafc7fb3a8edfa9392ec1991081d5660577e2>`_

[BUGFIX] Only count items in ForViewHelper when ``iteration`` argument is set
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the ``iteration`` argument, the ``ForViewHelper`` provides
information about the current iteration, including the ``cycle`` and
``total``. Therefore it needs to count all elements.
The problem is, that this happens even if the iteration argument is
not specified leading to performance issues especially when iterating
over a (subset of a) lot of (remote) items.

This patch fixes this by adding a check for the ``iteration`` argument.

Fixes: FLOW-325

* Commit: `bc7d8e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/bc7d8e55c6c5a7777d12ab51eb1ce4f5c76cf243>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix support for mixed case namespace identifiers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts the ``TemplateParser`` to support namespace aliases
containing upper case characters::

  {namespace someNamespace=Some\\Package\\ViewHelpers}
  <someNamespace:someViewHelper />

Without this fix the above ViewHelper tag would not be resolved but
rendered as is.

Background:
This is a regression introduced with the stricter namespace resolution
(see I9c63e7d0b116f9d1baabf09c6c18e97d8deb83fa).

Fixes: FLOW-290
Related: FLOW-150

* Commit: `0266ad1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/0266ad152cb3d5b10fe772921e4ec7a6301d234e>`_

[TASK] Detect and warn about usage of "format.json" and "uri.*" ViewHelpers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "Consistent escaping behavior" change (FLOW-26) comes with a code
migration that adjusts custom ViewHelpers to disable escaping in order
to stay backwards compatible.

But the behavior of some core ViewHelpers has changed. Especially
``f:format.json`` and ``f:uri.*`` ViewHelpers now apply
``htmlspecialchars`` to their output for security and consistency
reasons.

This change adds a warning for every HTML file that makes use of one of
those ViewHelpers to give the developer a heads-up.

* Resolves: `FLOW-319 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-319>`_
* Related: `FLOW-26 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-26>`_

* Commit: `168df42 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/168df42ce80f557801f2942f7131614dd1e19c97>`_

[TASK] Allow arbitrary characters in array/object keys
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allow arbitrary characters in array/object keys to support more
possible keys, e.g. @action argument for the link view helper.

* Related: `FLOW-248 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-248>`_
* Commit: `21a1c3d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Fluid.git/commit/21a1c3d77784505231a557a34157afa30db9c85e>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Kickstart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Mark recent core migrations applied
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit doesn't contain any changes, it simply marks recent
migrations applied so that::

  ./flow flow:core:migrate --status

won't show any open migrations for this package.

* Commit: `c8234b2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/c8234b213e0b821072cedd1a4981a555b66c099c>`_

[BUGFIX] Use propertyName instead of modelName for form labels
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The NewTemplate used the ``modelName`` for each property as label
instead of the ``propertyName``, this commit fixes that to be in
line with the EditTemplate.

Kudos for finding and fixing to Guido.

* Commit: `d627c40 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/d627c408bc9f0204c8829b489aeebfb170e6164f>`_

[FEATURE] Allow to kickstart documentation for a package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The new kickstart:documentation command allows to create the needed
skeleton for Sphinx-based documentation: conf.py, Makefile and a basic
index.rst file.

(cherry picked from commit 2c4dcd294d19fa5bd6a5ba7c33280a2300b165b9)

* Commit: `ed86aa7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Kickstart.git/commit/ed86aa7192c50fcff6bb2f7def15c8f2baa116d4>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Welcome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Undo requirements adjustment from CI job
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The release CI job adjusted requirements dutifully, but the result was
not as expected, because we humans missed some needed changes.

* Commit: `7cafb69 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/7cafb697cffd4057c9def670a1dfe8a3f9aeb423>`_

[TASK] Fix links in TYPO3.Welcome template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes some links still pointing to forge.type.org.

* Commit: `4b33416 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/4b334169eaf9038fe26b25a37ceb8d885584224b>`_

[TASK] Remove visible TYPO3 references and fix links
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the notion of "TYPO3 Flow" and the TYPO3 logo from visible
places in the Welcome screen and adjusts some links.

* Resolves: `FLOW-355 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-355>`_
* Commit: `6de6b8d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Welcome.git/commit/6de6b8d6bab1220fa7a592e0bed098cc84ca28bc>`_
