`3.0.11 (2017-04-01) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.0.11>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Use fallback if exception handler configured wrong <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/827>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In case the configured exception handler class dies not exist,
the `ProductionExceptionHandler` is used instead. This allows
(force-)flushing the caches to work in more cases.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Adjust Documentation to renamed routing cache <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/776>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A follow-up to I`bc55b5a4939b42b7cf2a08ada52985aa04bb7b04 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/bc55b5a4939b42b7cf2a08ada52985aa04bb7b04>`_
adjusting the Routing documentation and example configuration
to the Routing Cache that was renamed with I`ac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/ac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update PHP coding guidelines <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/757>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: added missing "schema“-definition for the "token"-property of "authentication"-providers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/708>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

resolves #700

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix calling shutdownObject() on doctrine proxy <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/731>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes #613 by creating the code to also call `shutdownObject()` on Doctrine Proxies. The proxy generation did not took into account that in `__wakeup()` the current Object can be an Instance of a Doctrine Proxy and therefore did not registered the `shutdownObject()` method on the ObjectManager.

As stated in #613 the temporary files from `Resource::createTemporaryLocalCopy()` where not removed, but with this fix they will be removed as expected.

Thanks to @monofone and @hlubek for support in finding the bug and implementing the solution and tests.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Exclude psr/log from reflection <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/726>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A change in dependencies pulled in psr/log which contains a trait,
causing failures with PHP 5.3

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Redis backend should prevent iteration of duplicate entries <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/709>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When setting or flushing by tag the list of entries is not correctly
updated. This could also occur if an entry is expired.

This change fixes the flush by tag behaviour to correctly remove
entries and adds a check into the iteration of cache entries to check
for existing entries.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Do not throw exception when concurrently unlinking files <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/471>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a race condition where concurrent emptying of a directory causes
errors because files were already unlinked by another process.

FLOW-283 #close
FLOW-345 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust commit subject prefix for core migrations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/707>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.0.10...3.0.11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
