`3.0.3 (2015-12-11) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.0.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`[TASK] Update \`\`doctrine/orm\`\` to 2.4 for PHP 7 compatibility <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/162>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents segmentation faults caused by Doctrine.

Prevents segmentation faults caused by Doctrine.

Excludes support for ``EntityListeners`` annotation introduced for 3.0

`[TASK] Tweak routing documentation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/170>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust Routing chapter to the placeholder support
in routing defaults introduced with FLOW-76

* Related: `FLOW-76 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-76>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Support for special characters in \`\`PositionalArraySorter\`\` keys <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/171>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the ``PositionalArraySorter`` one can position keys
relative to other keys with ``before/after <key>``.
But for the ``<key>`` only ``[a-zA-Z0-9]`` were allowed limiting the
functionality especially when dealing with package keys that contain
a dot.

This change adjusts the regular expression to allow any string to be
referenced.

When using the ``PositionalArraySorter`` one can position keys
relative to other keys with ``before/after <key>``.
But for the ``<key>`` only ``[a-zA-Z0-9]`` were allowed limiting the
functionality especially when dealing with package keys that contain
a dot.

This change adjusts the regular expression to allow any string to be
referenced.

* Fixes: `FLOW-422 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-422>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`Add missing namespace import for @Flow\\Scope <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/165>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Update merged composer manifest <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/161>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[TASK] PHP 7 compatibility <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/160>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Add DBAL minimum version to make JSON type work <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/159>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Json column type is support in doctrine DBAL only from
version 2.5.0 onwards. The current dependencies allow
installing it but it won't happen automatically, this
change makes sure that dbal is installed in the right
version.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Add best practice config to travis.yml <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/158>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds some php configuration settings to the travis configuration
to reduce the possibility of heap corruption errors.

`[TASK] Adjust check for maximum path length <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/152>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The SimpleFileBackend did a check for maximum path length
on construction but reserved an arbitrary length of 23 for cache
entry identifiers. Many identifiers are longer though and so even
if the exception was not triggered cache entries could fail to be
written.
This change moves the check to after a failed cache writing attempt
to check against the actual cache entry path.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Finalize PHP 7 support <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/157>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a few remaining (test) incompatibilities with PHP 7.

`[TASK] Use wrapper for phpunit to catch segfaults <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/156>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This uses a wrapper around the unit tests to handle an exit code of 139
as a non-error.

This happens when testing on Travis CI and while those error happen, we
cannot do much else about it.

`[BUGFIX] Lock files shouldn't be opened twice <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/155>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents opening lock files twice, first in read then in
write mode. Only one open should happen if successful.
The change fixes that.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Fix PHP 5.3 compatibility issues <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/153>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The 2.3 branch should be compatible to PHP 5.3, but since we did not have automated
testing in place on that version of PHP, some incompatibilties have crept in.

This fixes those issues and enables the unit and functional tests to be run on PHP 5.3
on Travis CI.

Also the Behat tests for Flow are run with this, since there is no reason they shouldn't.

`[BUGFIX] Use jsonb in JsonArrayType on PostgreSQL <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/80>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `JsonArrayType` in Flow inherits from the same type in Doctrine DBAL.

That type uses the `json` format, which is not comparable in PostgreSQL,
something that leads to issues if you want to use `DISTINCT` in a query.
Starting with PostgreSQL 9.4 the `jsonb` type is available, and the DB
knows how to compare it, making distinct queries possible.

Neos uses that, so the easiest way to fix this is to always use `jsonb`
for our custom type. The downside: the minimum supported version is
raised to 9.4.

* Related: `FLOW-396 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-396>`_
* Related: `NEOS-1627 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1627>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Prevent invalid Cookie pairs from raising errors <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/144>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Formally a Cookie header should consist of semi-colon separated pairs
of ``key=value`` but some clients might sent invalid cookie headers
resulting in a notice raised when there was no equals sign to split a
pair on.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Remove unused method in SimpleFileBackend <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/151>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``generateTemporaryPathAndFilename`` is no longer in use
since the introduction of locking last year, it can therefore
be removed.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] FlockLockStrategy should clean up lock files <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/138>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The FlockLockStrategy creates files to apply the lock on.
These files reside in the temporary folder but are never cleaned
on releasing the Lock that means the amount of files in this folder
will increase over time unless the folder is cleared manually.

Additionally cleans the code a bit and reduces chance of race
conditions while creating the lock.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Remove typo3.org SSO provider from Flow <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/150>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is no longer used and should have never been part of the framework
itself, to begin with.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Refresh first level roles cache on authentication <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/132>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As soon as an authentication process completes, roles might
have changed. Therefore we have to reinitialize the roles
first level cache in the security context.

* Fixes: `FLOW-415 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-415>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Remove references to „methodTaggedWith“ pointcut designator <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/147>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The pointcut designator „methodTaggedWith“ has been deprecated for 2.0 already.
This removes some leftover reference to this method.

* Fixes: `FLOW-417 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-417>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Adjust generated proxy code to PHP 7 uniform variable syntax <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/148>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change contains a fix in the "related entities" proxy class code
which makes the generated code PHP 7 compatible.

* Related: `NEOS-1608 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1608>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Ignore race condition on cached Configuration include <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/135>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It can happen that the cache include file was already removed
by a subrequest before getting to the unlink. The warning that
would follow can safely be ignored.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Ignore injected properties for value hash generation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/107>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When injecting properties into a value object, an exception was thrown that
a closure is tried to be serialized. This was due to the hash generation
in PersistenceMagicAspect only skipping properties that are annotated as
transient.

This change makes the value hash generation resort to the class schema instead
of directly iterating all properties, since the class schema is already focused
on persistence relevant properties and hence contains no injected properties.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Adjust exception handling for compatibility with PHP 7 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/143>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts the non-public API of Flow's exception handling to
fit the new exception types in PHP 7 (`\\Throwable`). It does not yet
take advantage of the new possibilities, but rather makes the existing
code compatible with both, PHP 5 and PHP 7.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Fluid``

`[BUGFIX] FastCGI compatible resources \`\`.htaccess\`\` file <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/137>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``.htaccess`` file in ``Web/_Resources`` contained php_flag,
which requires the ``mod_php`` module to be installed. Since FastCGI
setups don't have this module, an invalid command error is thrown.

In this change the flag is wrapped in ``IfModule`` tags to avoid that error,
and the ``SetHandler`` statement is added a second time in a ``Files`` tag
to avoid it being overwritten in certain cases.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Roles are refreshed after setting authentication status <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/136>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Otherwise getRoles() might act on the wrong value of the overall
authentication status stored in the authentication manager.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[!!!][BUGFIX] Store site lock in Flow temporary base path <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/97>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Storing the site lock files in the system temporary directory
could lead to endless locks on some file systems.
This changes the site locks to be stored in the Flow temporary base
path again.

This is a breaking change because it removes the setting
``TYPO3.Flow.utility.environment.temporaryDirectoryBase`` in favor of
a new environment variable ``FLOW_PATH_TEMPORARY_BASE`` that allows for
changing the path if needed.

Background:

FLOW-348 introduced a new locking mechanism that stored lock files
in the systems default temporary folder determined via
``sys_get_temp_dir()``. On some systems files created there by the
PHP process could not be removed afterwards.

* Related: `FLOW-348 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-348>`_
* Resolves: `FLOW-381 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-381>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.0.2...3.0.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
