`3.0.4 (2015-12-17) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.0.4>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`[BUGFIX] Don't unlink lock file <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/179>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unlinking the lock file again causes race conditions which the
locking should prevent in the first place. Until we found out a
solid way to do this we need to keep those files even though
this is not optimal due to the high amount of inodes those lock
files use up.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Generate PSR2 based code and some cleanup <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/175>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes the TYPO3 brand name and updates some invalid links.

* Packages: ``Kickstart``

`BUGFIX: Properly escape sub process variables on windows <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/182>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Windows SET command does not parse out quotes of the variable value but rather treats them as part of the value, which currently results in an error on windows since the fix for FLOW-381:

    Flow could not create the directory
    ""C:/workspace/Flow/Data/Temporary"/Development/".

Note the extra quotes around the temporary base path.

This change fixes that by properly escaping the SET command arguments on windows by using escapeshellcmd instead of escapeshellarg.

FLOW-425 #close
FLOW-381 #comment Regression fix for compilation on Windows

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Security context not available in shutdown lifecycle objects <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/181>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Because the order of shutdown methods being executed by the Object
Manager is undetermined, it may happen that `shutdownObject()` methods
relying on an initialized security context will fail because that
context is not available anymore. Additionally, Flow's own shutdown
object methods might fail because security checks are still active
even though the security framework is not available anymore.

This change makes sure that

1. shutdown methods of any other than the Flow package are executed first
2. Flow's own shutdown methods are called last, and without security checks

Due to the special nature of the CompileTimeObjectManager
we need to call the shutdown as before, but security will not
be used during compile time.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix documentation example <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/180>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation example for translating error messages has to use parameter 'id' instead of 'key'.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Add missing compression support in RedisBackend <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/141>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `FLOW-420 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/FLOW-420>`_
* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update CGL to match the PSR-2 standard <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/54>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[MERGE] Merge branch '2.3' into '3.0' <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/176>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[TASK] Break after 10000 lock attempts <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/174>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``FlockLockStrategy`` should at some point always be able
to aquire a lock even if it takes a while. But to prevent really
long running processes that interlock each other a natural
boundary to the amount of lock attempts is introduced.
The strategy will throw an exception after 10000 tries to aquire
the lock file. Depending on the results of random the maximum time
to reach this upper boundary is about 2 seconds.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`[BUGFIX] Ignore warning on failed stat <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/173>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We check if the stat call in ``FlockLockStrategy`` returned false anyway and
can safely suppress the generated warning.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.0.3...3.0.4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
