`3.1.9 (2017-04-01) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.1.9>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Allow factories to build prototypes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/850>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fix allowes to build prototypes using factories by configuring
`scope: prototype` in the Objects.yaml
Before the object manager ignores the configuration and generates singletons everytime.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Use fallback if exception handler configured wrong <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/827>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In case the configured exception handler class dies not exist,
the `ProductionExceptionHandler` is used instead. This allows
(force-)flushing the caches to work in more cases.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Call of non existing core command issues proper error <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/795>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

And exception was thrown when a non existing core command was being
invoked, eg. due to a spelling mistake.
The exception stems from the fact that all core commands are considered
compiletime commands but handling of non existing command calls is
done by the ``HelpCommandController`` which itself was not compiletime
compatible. This change adapts it to use inject methods which resolves
the problem.

Note that in upmerges the injections must be adapted to changing dependencies.

Fixes: #794

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Adjust Documentation to renamed routing cache <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/776>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A follow-up to I`bc55b5a4939b42b7cf2a08ada52985aa04bb7b04 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/bc55b5a4939b42b7cf2a08ada52985aa04bb7b04>`_
adjusting the Routing documentation and example configuration
to the Routing Cache that was renamed with I`ac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/ac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: DateTimeConverter accepts timestamps when configuration without format is provided <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/420>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, the DateTimeConverter would fail converting timestamps when a configuration for the
property existed, but did not configure the DateTimeConverter format.
This is commonly the case in REST Apis, where type conversion needs to be configured for allowing
creation and modification, but does not necessarily explicitly configure the DateTime format.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update PHP coding guidelines <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/757>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Exclude psr/log from reflection <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/726>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A change in dependencies pulled in psr/log which contains a trait,
causing failures with PHP 5.3

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.1.8...3.1.9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
