`3.2.3 (2016-05-29) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.2.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: After creating a package all packages should be sorted <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/365>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After creating a package only a rescan of existing packages was triggered
but not a resorting. That would lead to arbitrary package loading order
which only depended on the way the filesystem would find the packages.
This has been changed to trigger a full rescan including sorting of packages.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Clear opcode cache before compiling proxy classes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/361>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a bug with statcaches that would lead to Flow trying to delete
configuration files that no longer existed.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Allow wildcard propertymapping configuration to set defaults for trustedProperties configuration <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/333>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before, when specifying a PropertyMappingConfiguration with a wildcard inside the initializeAction() of
a controller, this configuration would not be taken into account when a Fluid form was submitted, that
set configuration for specific properties.

This change makes the trustedProperties configuration happen *after* the user configuration, which in turn
will lead to trustedProperties always only extend the user configuration and wildcard configurations to
be used as the template configuration for the following specific trustedProperties configurations.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Use version of composer.json as fallback for installed version of packages <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/351>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In case of missing the installed version of a package, we provide the given version out of the composer.json of the package.

FLOW-455 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Ignore abstract command-controllers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/359>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a command controller is declared abstract the cli ignores this class because it cannot be instantiated.
The commands from derived classes will of course be available.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Don't override CommandManager in HelpCommandController <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/358>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change remove the property ``commandManager`` from the
``HelpCommandController``, because it already defined in the parent class.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Missing use statement in HelpCommandController <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/356>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fix a regression introduced in 3.2, the use statement for the CommandManager is missing

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.2.2...3.2.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
