`3.2.9 (2017-02-14) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.2.9>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: ClassLoader should load AvailableProxies from TEMPORARY_BASE <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/867>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have an old version of the AvailableProxyClasses in FLOW_PATH_DATA
and you change FLOW_PATH_TEMPORARY_BASE, always the old proxy classes
get loaded.

Resolves: #866

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Proxy Compiler adds newline after end of original code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/854>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As any original class might end on a comment line without newline we need to
add a newline as part of the proxy building to avoid putting the proxy
namespace declaration within a comment. Additionally adds a marker comment
declaring the beginning of the proxy code.

Fixes: #779

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Peg generated parsers are excluded from proxy building <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/853>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The generated parsers ``AbstractParser``, ``EelParser`` and ``FizzleParser``
are excluded from proxy building as the include statement and the general
structure of these make them unsuitable for proxy-ing. This was only a bug
before if an AOP advice targeted the mentioned classes, now this cannot
happen anymore.

Fixes: #796

* Packages: ``Eel``

`BUGFIX: Resource setSha1() fails on uppercase hash <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/865>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes an issue with the Resource object's
`setSha1()` method which fails if the given hexadecimal
number uses uppercase characters for A-F.

On some operating systems or third party services,
uppercase hashes may be used. `setSha1()` now accepts
values containing uppercase characters and normalizes
them to lowercase. Therefore, when you set a SHA1
with an uppercase hexadecimal string, `getSha1()`
will return it in lowercase.

Related to https://github.com/flownative/flow-google-cloudstorage/issues/4

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Add documentation about package types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/862>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a note about the package type prefixes support.

Fixes: #503

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: \`\`ReflectionService::getClassSchema\`\` works with Proxies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/860>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Getting a class schema from the reflection service should work
when giving a doctrine proxy object instead of the actual entity.

Fixes: #561

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Allow factories to build prototypes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/850>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fix allowes to build prototypes using factories by configuring
`scope: prototype` in the Objects.yaml
Before the object manager ignores the configuration and generates singletons everytime.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Use fallback if exception handler configured wrong <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/827>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In case the configured exception handler class dies not exist,
the `ProductionExceptionHandler` is used instead. This allows
(force-)flushing the caches to work in more cases.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Set Bootstrap::$staticObjectManager only if ready <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/822>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When an exception occurs, our `Logger` tries to write an exception trace.

For this, it tries to fetch the `Bootstrap` instance from
`Bootstrap::$staticObjectManager` if that is an instance of
`ObjectManagerInterface`. Now, due to the order of calls during the bootstrap
of Flow, `Bootstrap::$staticObjectManager` is set before the `Bootstrap`
instance is set there. If an exception is to be logged before that point, the
`ObjectManager` simply tries to build the `Bootstrap` but does not pass the
required `$context`. That leads to:

    Missing argument 1 for TYPO3\\Flow\\Core\\Bootstrap::__construct(), called in
    /…/ObjectManager.php

This in turn masks the error that caused the exception to be logged, blocking
proper resolution of the actual issue.

This change fixes this by making sure the `Bootstrap::$staticObjectManager`
variable is set after the `Bootstrap` has been "injected" into the
`ObjectManager` instance.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Call of non existing core command issues proper error <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/795>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

And exception was thrown when a non existing core command was being
invoked, eg. due to a spelling mistake.
The exception stems from the fact that all core commands are considered
compiletime commands but handling of non existing command calls is
done by the ``HelpCommandController`` which itself was not compiletime
compatible. This change adapts it to use inject methods which resolves
the problem.

Note that in upmerges the injections must be adapted to changing dependencies.

Fixes: #794

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Adjust Documentation to renamed routing cache <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/776>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A follow-up to I`bc55b5a4939b42b7cf2a08ada52985aa04bb7b04 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/bc55b5a4939b42b7cf2a08ada52985aa04bb7b04>`_
adjusting the Routing documentation and example configuration
to the Routing Cache that was renamed with I`ac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/ac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: DateTimeConverter accepts timestamps when configuration without format is provided <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/420>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, the DateTimeConverter would fail converting timestamps when a configuration for the
property existed, but did not configure the DateTimeConverter format.
This is commonly the case in REST Apis, where type conversion needs to be configured for allowing
creation and modification, but does not necessarily explicitly configure the DateTime format.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update PHP coding guidelines <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/757>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Exclude psr/log from reflection <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/726>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A change in dependencies pulled in psr/log which contains a trait,
causing failures with PHP 5.3

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.2.8...3.2.9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
