`3.3.0 (2016-08-22) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.3.0>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Prevent PHPUnit Warnings introduced with #130 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/438>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Add missing Doctrine 2.5 mappings and fix Embeddables <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/439>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds mappings for the @ORM\\Index annotation attributes "flags" and "options" as well as the @ORM\\UniqueConstraints annotation attribute "options".

Also, this adds a test for and fixes the Doctrine Embeddables.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust some unit tests to avoid warnings <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/430>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow replacement of configuration with environment-variable <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/431>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently configuration can be replaced with constants via the ``%CONST_NAME%``syntax.
This change adds a special prefix env: to the configuration post-processing that replaces markers of the form ``%env:ENV_VAR_NAME%`` with the content of the environment variable if one is defined

FLOW-212  #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add "Trusted Proxies" as a HTTP component <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/409>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a HTTP component for so called "Trusted Proxies" that is registered
at the start of the HTTP chain.

It is configurated via the setting `TYPO3.Flow.http.trustedProxies.proxies`, which is a list of
IP address ranges that are trusted to provide header overrides for some import request meta
informations like the host, port, protocol and client IP.

    proxies:
      - '216.246.40.0/24'
      - '216.246.100.0/24'

Also the header names that are trusted for those informations can be set via the configuration
option `TYPO3.Flow.http.trustedProxies.headers` and default to this:

    headers:
      clientIp: 'Client-Ip, X-Forwarded-For, X-Forwarded, X-Cluster-Client-Ip, Forwarded-For, Forwarded'
      host: 'X-Forwarded-Host'
      port: 'X-Forwarded-Port'
      proto: 'X-Forwarded-Proto'

The `clientIp` setting is chosen for backwards compatibility of the `getClientIpAddress` method.
This method will now resolve to the first IP address that is not a trusted proxy inside the first of the configured headers that exists in order from left to right.
This setting should be changed to only a single trusted header instead.

By default all IP addresses are trusted to stay mostly backwards compatible, but a more
safe setting would be to trust no proxies by default:

    proxies: []

FLOW-414 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust unit tests to use "real mocks" <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/429>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mocking a "virtual" class is no longer allowed, so we use fixture classes.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Avoid PHPUnit warnings on deprecated getMock method <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/428>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update Flow to use Doctrine ORM 2.5 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/121>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this we update Flow to use Doctrine ORM 2.5. It should allow new features
in Doctrine ORM (like embedded objects and the cache annotation) to be used without
restrictions.

This also removes some special proxy methods to initialise doctrine proxies.

FLOW-260 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: MethodsAndAdvices fix for non proxied target classes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/425>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fix done in commit `8ca79cda53f90415458eb825c5bac52105d08d40 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/8ca79cda53f90415458eb825c5bac52105d08d40>`_
did not catch all cases as target classes that do not have an
advice applied (usually the parent class then has the advice),
was not treated with the fix for methods and advices.

This change adds treatment for those classes as well.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove doctrine/orm dependency <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/424>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As the doctrine classes are only used for type checks in
``instanceof`` and ``is_subclass_of`` and both work with
non existing classes we can drop the dependency on
``doctrine/orm`` in this package.

`BUGFIX: Sub classes of adviced classes should initialize advices <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/418>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Any sub class of a class that has an advice also needs to initialize
the advices array in the constructor or otherwise that will lead to
exceptions later on. The only reason it works currently is the
``\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Object\\Proxy\\DoctrineProxyFixingTrait``
which (as a side effect) masks this bug. If we want to get rid of this
trait with newer Doctrine versions we need to fix the bug on our side.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Support PHP 7.0 type declarations on parameters and return types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/394>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds methods to the reflection service to access declared types in
a backwards compatible way (returning null for PHP < 7.0) and extends
the proxy builder to add type declarations if they were used on the
original method. This allows to use type declarations for parameters
(scalar values) or return type declarations even for advised methods.

FLOW-460 #fixes

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Safeguard for unmananged constructor injections <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/422>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds an additional check to ``ObjectConverter::buildObject()``
in order to prevent misleading errors when trying to convert objects
with constructor injections that are unknown to the ``ObjectManager``.

FLOW-463 #related

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow automatic injection of singleton constructor arguments <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/421>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This allows to omit singleton constructor arguments when using the
``PropertyMapper`` to convert objects.

Background:
Constructor arguments can already be omitted if there is a default
value specified in the class to convert to:

```
class SomeClass {
  public function __construct($optionaArgument = null) {
    // ..
  }
}
```

With this change this will also work for (singleton) classes:

```
class SomeClass {
  public function __construct(SomeService $someService) {
    // ..
  }
}
$someInstance = $this->propertyMapper->convert([], SomeClass::class);
```

FLOW-463 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: New configuration syntax for request patterns & firewall filters <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/130>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration format for authentication request patterns is
not very flexible and inconsistent with other settings.

With this change the syntax is changed from:
```yaml
  'SomeAuthenticationProvider':
    # ...
    requestPatterns:
      'controllerObjectName': 'Some\\Package\\AdministrationArea\\.*'
```

To a more generic syntax:

```yaml
  'SomeAuthenticationProvider':
    # ...
    requestPatterns:
      'Some.Package:AdministrationArea':
        pattern: 'ControllerObjectName'
        patternOptions:
          'controllerObjectNamePattern': 'Some\\Package\\AdministrationArea\\.*'
```

The new syntax seems more cumbersome but it allows for advanced request
pattern options. Besides the new level allows to attach *multiple*
patterns of one type to a provider.
This also allows to *unset* previously configured patterns:

```yaml
  'SomeAuthenticationProvider':
    requestPatterns:
      'Some.Package:AdministrationArea': ~
```

The configuration syntax for request patterns for the firewall has
been adjusted accordingly::

```yaml
    TYPO3:
      Flow:
        security:
          firewall:
            filters:
              'Some.Package:BlockedUris':
                pattern: 'Uri'
                patternOptions:
                  'uriPattern': '\\/some\\/uri\\/.*'
                interceptor: AccessDeny
```

This is not a breaking change as the old syntax is still supported.

But as the new syntax is recommended, this comes with a corresponding
core migration that you can execute as follows:

```
  /flow core:migrate --version 20151113161300 --verbose
```

FLOW-412 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Require latest version of neos/composer-plugin <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/414>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Require version 2.x of the ``composer-plugin`` package. Previous versions
use the ``excludeClasses`` setting which has been deprecated with Flow 3.0.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix Property Mapper determination for the ObjectConverter <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/397>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When mapping a plain object with the ``ObjectConverter``, root namespace 
properties like ``\\DateTime`` do not find a converter. This is because
the leading backslash is not removed by the ``ObjectConverter`` (i.e. we
looked for a ``\\DateTimeConverter`` instead of the ``DateTimeConverter``

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update used Symfony components to 2.8 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/408>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since symfony follows semver (http://symfony.com/doc/current/contributing/code/bc.html) it's almost always possible to upgrade components within the given major without BC breaks.

This updates the used symfony components to 2.8, which also matches the most current [LTS](http://symfony.com/doc/current/contributing/community/releases.html#long-term-support-versions) version supported.

I would also bring a `^3.0` requirement to the table, but that one would mean a little more work and may be done in a second step.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow whitelisting and blacklisting paths from scanning for available locales <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/385>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces the configuration setting "TYPO3.Flow.i18n.scan.includePaths", which is a
list of folder names relative to the `Resources` folder that should be scanned for available locales.
By default all folders inside each Package's `Resources` will be scanned.

To skip specific folders inside the scanned paths, the setting "TYPO3.Flow.i18n.scan.excludePatterns"
can be used, which is a dictionary of regex patterns that should be ignored.
This can greatly improve performance when lots of folders and files exist without any localized filenames, like `node_modules` or `.git`.

By default the following folders will be skipped for scanning:
 - '/node_modules/'
 - '/bower_components/'
 - all folders that start with a dot, like '.git' or '.sass-cache'

FLOW-376 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Tweaked "ignoredTables" behavior <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/403>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up to a feature merged with #366 that allows
a configurable whitelist for tables respected by the `doctrine:migrationgenerate` command.

This change turns that setting into a *blacklist* and makes the list a
dictionary so that 3rd party packages can extend the list:

```yaml
TYPO3:
  Flow:
    persistence:
      doctrine:
        migrations:
          ignoredTables:
            'autogenerated_.*': TRUE
            'wp_.*: TRUE
```

This would skip all tables starting with `autogenerated_` or `wp_` from migrations when
using the `./flow doctrine:migrationgenerate` command.

This also adjusts the Settings schema and adds a section to the documentation.

Related: #366

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: New parameter to keep output ordered by loading order instead of name <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/401>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Very helpful parameter to debug loading order of packages.

`package:list --loading-order`

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Input field name for multiple checkbox is generated correctly <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/386>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Checkboxes that were bound to collection properties or had the `multiple` attribute set,
were generating invalid input field names like this:

    <input type="checkbox" name="post[tags][__identity][]" ...>

Since the internal identity is not required for checkboxes, it is stripped from the generated name.
Also, any such checkboxes now avoid generating an empty value hidden field, as this will at most
lead to empty values being additionally submitted to the collection property.

FLOW-419 #close

* Packages: ``Fluid``

`TASK: Fix use of deprecated getMock() <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/402>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Fluid``

`BUGFIX: Use Unix paths in InstallerScripts <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/400>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Files utility used by InstallerScripts will use these constants
to transform an absolute path to a relative one. As the compared path
will always be a Unix path, the path to replace needs to be completely
Unix as well to make replacing working. This prevents "mkdir(): invalid
arguments" errors on Windows.

Similar to neos/flow-development-collection#399 , but then for the 3.0
version.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Use Unix paths in InstallerScripts <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/399>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Files utility used by InstallerScripts will use these constants
to transform an absolute path to a relative one. As the compared path
will always be a Unix path, the path to replace needs to be completely
Unix as well to make replacing working. This prevents "mkdir(): invalid
arguments" errors on Windows.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Allow SliceOperation to work on \\Iterator <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/398>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Eel slice operation only works with arrays so far. Since the FlowQuery
context can be anything that implements `\\Iterator`, we now convert iterators
to arrays if they are passed in as the context.

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Check if array is \`\`null\`\` at the beginning of JSON conversion <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/395>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevent an exception to be thrown if the array passed for conversion is ``null``.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Provide basic documentation about Eel <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/393>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* To explain what Eel is about.
* To ease starting with Eel.
* To provide a central place for Eel where further documentation is
  referenced.

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix documentation about Privilege Parameters <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/392>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes the `Policy.yaml` examples in the Privilege Parameters section of the Security chapter.

FLOW-459 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: FlowException is no imported <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/391>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a missing class import introduced with PR #376 into the 2.3 branch.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow asynchronous execution of commands <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/390>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a new convenience method `Scripts::executeCommandAsync()` that can be
used to execute commands without waiting for their result.

This is especially useful for time-consuming tasks whose result is not
(instantly) required.

Example::

     Scripts::executeCommandAsync('my.package:registration:sendconfirmationmail', $this->flowSettings, ['email' => $emailAddress]);

FLOW-458 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: More consistent translation behavior <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/377>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This patch adjusts the behavior of id-based translations in order to make it deterministic and consistent.

It mainly adjusts `Translator::translateById()` to return `NULL` if the given `id` couldn't be translated. Previously it returned the `id` making it impossible to detect that case.

This has an effect to the two related Fluid ViewHelpers in certain conditions:

`{f:translate(id: 'some.id', value: 'default')}`:

previously returned the *translated* default value if the `id` wasn't translated, possibly leading to unexpected behavior.
Now it will just return the raw default value ("default" in the example above instead of "translatedDefault").

Besides the `TranslateViewHelper` has been tweaked to always return an empty string rather than `NULL` if neither id nor value could be resolved.

`<f:form.select translate="{by:'id', by:'value', prefix: 'prefix.'}" />`:

Previously this would render

`<option value="...">prefix.someValue</option>`

if the id could not be translated.
With `by:'label'` it would return the prefixed label instead.

Now we always render the actual key (= label) of the option in that case:

`<option value="...">Original Option</option>`

FLOW-456 #close

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Fluid``

`BUGIX: Remove temporary file in importTemporaryFile() <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/389>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The temporary file used to be gone after importing, but since it only is
moved when the target does not yet exist, this changed. Now the file is
unlinked in that case.

FLOW-378 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Revert "FEATURE: Add support for configuring trusted proxies" <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/388>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reverts neos/flow-development-collection#321

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add support for configuring trusted proxies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/321>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a configuration setting `TYPO3.Flow.http.trustedProxies.proxies`
for so called "Trusted Proxies", which is a list of IP address ranges that are trusted
to provide header overrides for some import request meta informations like the host,
port, protocol and client IP.

        proxies:
          - '216.246.40.0/24'
          - '216.246.100.0/24'

Also the header names that are trusted for those informations can be set via the configuration
option `TYPO3.Flow.http.trustedProxies.headers` and default to this:

        headers:
          clientIp: 'X-Forwarded-For'
          host: 'X-Forwarded-Host'
          port: 'X-Forwarded-Port'
          proto: 'X-Forwarded-Proto'

To get the most trusted client IP adress, the Http Request provides a new method
`getTrustedClientIpAddress()` which resolves the clientIp header, matching against
trusted proxy addresses. So this might not always end up as the actual user IP address.

By default all IP addresses are trusted to stay mostly backwards compatible, but a more
safe setting would be to trust no proxies by default:

        proxies: []

FLOW-414 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Resources can be published with relative symlinks <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/187>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a new option to the ``FileSystemSymlinkTarget`` named
``relativeSymlinks`` which will calculate a relative path from
source to target and symlink to that relative path instead of an
absolute path.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow use of PDO backend for caches <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/366>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request contains two features:

1. Make PdoBackend iterable so it can be used for caches
2. Use default filter expression to ignore other packages when generating migrations

I tested this with PostgreSQL as a backend for sessions.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Validate only up to Aggregate boundaries <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/334>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is one specific attempt at optimizing entity hierarchy validation, by stopping validation at unloaded Aggregate boundaries.

It is based on the idea that unloaded aggregates (doctrine proxy instances) do not carry changes, and since aggregates form a natural consistency boundary validation should not change and therefore can be stopped.

This will improve performance noticeably if you designed relatively small aggregates, but have lots of aggregate relations in your domain model.

FLOW-17 #comment This optimizes validation performance for well designed Aggregates

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Followup cleanup for #333 to make use of ::class <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/375>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes the usage of class names as strings that were necessary in 2.3 branch for PHP backwards compatibility in #333 and replaces them with the recommended ::class calls.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Deprecate unused methods in \`\`Argument\`\` class <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/363>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some methods haven't been removed or deprecated earlier but are in fact
no longer used in the Flow core and therefore deprecated to be removed
in the next major Flow version.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/369>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by StyleCI.

For details, see https://styleci.io/analyses/XN4pa4

* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow`` ``Fluid``

`TASK: Document handling a large number of Resources <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/347>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a project contains lots of resources, resource:publish might fail if the maximum number of folders is being reached when publishing resources because no more folders can be created.
This part describes how to use the subdivideHashPathSegment target option in order to circumvent this error.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove unneeded class imports <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/349>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes removes imprts that are not
longer needed.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Fluid``

`TASK: Don't set a default host for persistence backend <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/308>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Flow won't work on a server without a running MySQL service because a default host is configured.
This fix will set the default host to an empty string so Flow also runs without a running MySQL service.

FLOW-379 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.2.4...3.3.0>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
