`3.3.14 (2017-06-20) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.3.14>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Add handling of HTTP HEAD-request with curl <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/993>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Extended CurlEngine for request-type HEAD to set the option to not expect a body.

resolves #992 

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Better message on missing runtime expression <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/996>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This improves the error message on missing AOP runtime expressions
just a little.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add missing documentation for trait introduction <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/984>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Trait introduction is available since some time, but it was never
documented. This change adds a short explanation with a code
example to fix that.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Throw error if package exists two times <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/953>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Without this change a package (defined by composer name eg. "neos/party")
that exists two times in the installation would be silently ignored and added
with the second path found.	This could still result in strange effects
happening as autoload and Flow internal paths (configuration, resources) could
diverge.

With this change an exception is thrown when the package states are resolved
and a package is found a second time.

Fixes: #611

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Trait AOP works when only introduces traits to class <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/987>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When introducing a trait using AOP it now works if the class only has traits introduced via AOP.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Check for link in unpublishFile() <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/973>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`unpublishFile()` in the `FileSystemTarget` does not remove symlinks
correctly, thus the method is adjusted in the `FileSystemSymlinkTarget`
to check using `is_link()` instead of `file_exists()`.

Fixes #972

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Return type declaration should be FQCN <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/967>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes #963

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: FileSystemTargetTest shouldn't have side effects <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/966>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The test would create a Flow package in the current installation as the
package manager in the test was not prepared with a virtual filesystem.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust schema of routes configuration <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/932>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously the route parts were evaluated correct regardless of the configured keys because the schema used the configuration `additionalAttributes = FALSE` instead of `additionalProperties = FALSE`. This is fixed and the schema is updated 

- validate the keys in route parts strictly
- allow configuration of `objectType` and  `uriPattern ` instead of `handler`
- allow `options` and `toLowerCase` for all routeParts

- [x] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [ ] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix error message to correctly refer to composer.json <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/960>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This misleading message was introduced in `a0a1453d87053e2c17b954804c61c5c03fa00c89 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/a0a1453d87053e2c17b954804c61c5c03fa00c89>`_
due to too much javascript work being done.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove usage of deprecated \`\`Yaml::parse\`\` with file path <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/949>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The symfony yaml parser deprecated handing in a file path and
instead expects the yaml content as string. As that is the same
behavior as for the PHP YAML extension the code was adapted to
read the file in all cases and pass the content to the respective
parser.

Fixes: #824

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix link to support page <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/952>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related #940

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Attempt reconnect only if EntityManager is open <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/921>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a `\\Doctrine\\DBAL\\DBALException` is thrown in `persistAll()`, a reconnect will be attempted,
but only if `EntityManager->isOpen()` returns true. Otherwise the exception is re-thrown.

Before the connection to the server was sometimes never re-established, since only the specific
Flow\\Error\\Exception was caught.

Also this will prevent hiding exceptions that result in a closed EntityManager.

Fixes #870

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix support for PHP 7.1 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/936>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With PHP 7.1 the behavior of `file_get_contents()` has been changed
allowing negative offsets to be specified.

This change adjusts the signature of `TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Files::getFileContents()`
accordingly.

*Note:* This is a backport of #821 which has only been applied to the 4.0 branch

Fixes: neos/neos-development-collection#1301, #847

* Packages: ``Files`` ``Flow``

`TASK: Use generateRandomString() instead of uniqid() <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/935>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reduces the risk of collision on temporary filenames and other
identifiers and data.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.3.13...3.3.14>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
