`3.3.6 (2016-12-05) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.3.6>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Enable flow to send multiple http-headers of the same type <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/745>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The method setHeader accepts a value or an array of values, but until now if an arrays of values was given the renderHeaders method correctly rendered a seperate header for each value but during sending the ``header`` php-method overwrote the previously send headers because the replace argument was not given and defaults to ``true``.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: added missing "schema“-definition for the "token"-property of "authentication"-providers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/708>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

resolves #700

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix calling shutdownObject() on doctrine proxy <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/731>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes #613 by creating the code to also call `shutdownObject()` on Doctrine Proxies. The proxy generation did not took into account that in `__wakeup()` the current Object can be an Instance of a Doctrine Proxy and therefore did not registered the `shutdownObject()` method on the ObjectManager.

As stated in #613 the temporary files from `Resource::createTemporaryLocalCopy()` where not removed, but with this fix they will be removed as expected.

Thanks to @monofone and @hlubek for support in finding the bug and implementing the solution and tests.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: de-corruptify old PSR-0 core migration <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/736>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes the old core migration 20120920111200 to not
cause any trouble with newer code using PSR-4.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Testing checkout must not be git repository <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/715>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`TASK: Use ComposerManifestUpdater in TravisCI builds <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/714>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Files``

`TASK: Use the correct distribution branch in travis <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/713>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`BUGFIX: Redis backend should prevent iteration of duplicate entries <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/709>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When setting or flushing by tag the list of entries is not correctly
updated. This could also occur if an entry is expired.

This change fixes the flush by tag behaviour to correctly remove
entries and adds a check into the iteration of cache entries to check
for existing entries.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Do not throw exception when concurrently unlinking files <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/471>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a race condition where concurrent emptying of a directory causes
errors because files were already unlinked by another process.

FLOW-283 #close
FLOW-345 #close

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Allow configuration of doctrine second level cache <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/452>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces the configuration settings `TYPO3.Flow.persistence.doctrine.secondLevelCache`
which allows configuring the second level cache that is available since Doctrine ORM 2.5
Currently, this allows for enabling the second level cache, setting default lifetime and region specific
lifetimes.
The used cache can be configured as `Flow_Persistence_Doctrine_SecondLevel`.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust commit subject prefix for core migrations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/707>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Adjust media types updater (and update media types) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/697>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the media types updater script to work with the new
array syntax as otherwise nothing would have been changed.

Additionally updates the media types list to add "m4a".

* Packages: ``MediaTypes``

`BUGFIX: Adapt the core migration manager for the new package manager <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/689>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Without this change PHP can print a warning message in the CLI output: PHP Warning:  Attempt to assign property of non-object in Manager.php on line 265.

This change fix access to currentPackageData['composerManifest']['extra'] to use the array
syntax and not the stdClass, used by the previous package manager. 

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.3.5...3.3.6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
