`3.3.7 (2017-01-30) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.3.7>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Pin utility versions to 3.3 branch releases <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/846>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Avoid installing breaking versions of the utilities in Flow 3.3.

* Packages: ``Arrays`` ``Flow`` ``Lock``

`BUGFIX: Make I18nService scan Translation folders for available locales <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/411>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before, the I18nService only scanned file names for locale identifiers, but the main source
for available locales are the translations, which reside in locale folders. Therefore it was not
possible to add an available locale through an additional translation file.

This went unnoticed, because the available locales are still filled with all locales available
in the CLDR.

This change will now also scan folder names inside `/Private/Translations/` for valid
locale identifiers.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Use fallback if exception handler configured wrong <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/827>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In case the configured exception handler class dies not exist,
the `ProductionExceptionHandler` is used instead. This allows
(force-)flushing the caches to work in more cases.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Set Bootstrap::$staticObjectManager only if ready <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/822>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When an exception occurs, our `Logger` tries to write an exception trace.

For this, it tries to fetch the `Bootstrap` instance from
`Bootstrap::$staticObjectManager` if that is an instance of
`ObjectManagerInterface`. Now, due to the order of calls during the bootstrap
of Flow, `Bootstrap::$staticObjectManager` is set before the `Bootstrap`
instance is set there. If an exception is to be logged before that point, the
`ObjectManager` simply tries to build the `Bootstrap` but does not pass the
required `$context`. That leads to:

    Missing argument 1 for TYPO3\\Flow\\Core\\Bootstrap::__construct(), called in
    /…/ObjectManager.php

This in turn masks the error that caused the exception to be logged, blocking
proper resolution of the actual issue.

This change fixes this by making sure the `Bootstrap::$staticObjectManager`
variable is set after the `Bootstrap` has been "injected" into the
`ObjectManager` instance.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add more optional arguments to currency viewhelper <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/705>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds ``prependCurrency``, ``separateCurrency`` and ``decimals`` as optional arguments to the ``CurrencyViewHelper``.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Fluid``

`BUGFIX: Call of non existing core command issues proper error <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/795>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

And exception was thrown when a non existing core command was being
invoked, eg. due to a spelling mistake.
The exception stems from the fact that all core commands are considered
compiletime commands but handling of non existing command calls is
done by the ``HelpCommandController`` which itself was not compiletime
compatible. This change adapts it to use inject methods which resolves
the problem.

Note that in upmerges the injections must be adapted to changing dependencies.

Fixes: #794

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Adjust Documentation to renamed routing cache <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/776>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A follow-up to I`bc55b5a4939b42b7cf2a08ada52985aa04bb7b04 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/bc55b5a4939b42b7cf2a08ada52985aa04bb7b04>`_
adjusting the Routing documentation and example configuration
to the Routing Cache that was renamed with I`ac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/ac1bd27cd1f2869e597b696c896633f14703ec40>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: DateTimeConverter accepts timestamps when configuration without format is provided <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/420>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, the DateTimeConverter would fail converting timestamps when a configuration for the
property existed, but did not configure the DateTimeConverter format.
This is commonly the case in REST Apis, where type conversion needs to be configured for allowing
creation and modification, but does not necessarily explicitly configure the DateTime format.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust documentation recommendations to ComponentChain <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/656>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation still recommended to create Requests through the `createFromEnvironment`
factory method, but that completely bypasses the HTTP components and hence leads to unexpected
results.
This change adjusts documentation and clearly states, that the factory method should not be used
to access the **current** request and response. Instead it is suggested to use the `RequestHandler`
for that purpose only.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update PHP coding guidelines <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/757>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Exclude psr/log from reflection <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/726>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A change in dependencies pulled in psr/log which contains a trait,
causing failures with PHP 5.3

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.3.6...3.3.7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
