`3.3.8 (2017-02-14) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/3.3.8>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: ClassLoader should load AvailableProxies from TEMPORARY_BASE <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/867>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have an old version of the AvailableProxyClasses in FLOW_PATH_DATA
and you change FLOW_PATH_TEMPORARY_BASE, always the old proxy classes
get loaded.

Resolves: #866

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Proxy Compiler adds newline after end of original code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/854>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As any original class might end on a comment line without newline we need to
add a newline as part of the proxy building to avoid putting the proxy
namespace declaration within a comment. Additionally adds a marker comment
declaring the beginning of the proxy code.

Fixes: #779

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Peg generated parsers are excluded from proxy building <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/853>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The generated parsers ``AbstractParser``, ``EelParser`` and ``FizzleParser``
are excluded from proxy building as the include statement and the general
structure of these make them unsuitable for proxy-ing. This was only a bug
before if an AOP advice targeted the mentioned classes, now this cannot
happen anymore.

Fixes: #796

* Packages: ``Eel``

`BUGFIX: Resource setSha1() fails on uppercase hash <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/865>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes an issue with the Resource object's
`setSha1()` method which fails if the given hexadecimal
number uses uppercase characters for A-F.

On some operating systems or third party services,
uppercase hashes may be used. `setSha1()` now accepts
values containing uppercase characters and normalizes
them to lowercase. Therefore, when you set a SHA1
with an uppercase hexadecimal string, `getSha1()`
will return it in lowercase.

Related to https://github.com/flownative/flow-google-cloudstorage/issues/4

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Add documentation about package types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/862>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a note about the package type prefixes support.

Fixes: #503

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: \`\`ReflectionService::getClassSchema\`\` works with Proxies <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/860>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Getting a class schema from the reflection service should work
when giving a doctrine proxy object instead of the actual entity.

Fixes: #561

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Allow factories to build prototypes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/850>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fix allowes to build prototypes using factories by configuring
`scope: prototype` in the Objects.yaml
Before the object manager ignores the configuration and generates singletons everytime.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/3.3.7...3.3.8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
