========
Flow 3.1
========

Today, December 22nd 2015, we’re happy to announce **Flow 3.1**.


====================
Upgrade Instructions
====================

This section contains instructions for upgrading your Flow 3.0 based applications to Flow 3.1.

What has changed
----------------

Flow 3.1 comes with numerous fixes and improvements. Here's a list of changes that might need special attention when
upgrading.

In general make sure to run the commands::

 ./flow flow:cache:flush --force
 ./flow core:migrate
 ./flow database:setcharset
 ./flow doctrine:migrate
 ./flow resource:publish

when upgrading (see below).

Support for PHP 7
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

With Flow 3.0 the minimum PHP version requirement has been increased
from `5.3.2` to `5.5.0`. The current releases also support PHP 7.

Routes via Settings
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This change allows routes to be defined via `Settings.yaml` like follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      mvc:
        routes:
          'Some.Package': TRUE

This would append the main `Routes.yaml` from the package
``Some.Package`` (including it's subroutes, if any) to existing
route definitions.

It's also possible to specify the order in relation to other packages:

.. code-block:: yaml

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      mvc:
        routes:
          'SomeOther.Package':
            position: 'before Some.Package'

This will add the ``SomeOther.Package`` routes *before* the routes
of ``Some.Package`` (if those are included).

.. note::
  Routes included via main `Configuration/Routes.yaml` will
  *always* be included first, it's not possible to add routes before or
  in between those via the new setting.

  Thus it's recommended to remove the main `Routes.yaml` and include
  routes via `Settings.yaml` instead.

For the Flow Routes this could look like:

.. code-block:: yaml

  TYPO3:
    Flow:
      mvc:
        routes:
          'TYPO3.Flow':
            position: 'start'

Setting for application name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This change introduces a new setting which allows developers to display
a custom application name and version in the ``./flow help`` commands and
potentially elsewhere. For example, ``./flow`` will display "Neos" and the
version number of the Neos package, when the command is run in a Neos
distribution.

The setting does not refer to the application name directly, but to a
package key. The specified package's meta data (Composer manifest) is
used to determine the application name and version. Since it is best
practice to use the "description" property of the Composer manifest for
specifying the application name, that field is used as the application
name in ./flow too (see also comments by Jordi at
https://github.com/composer/composer/issues/1140).

Flow resources can be copied from one collection to another
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Introduces a new command ``./flow resource:copy currentCollection newCollection``
that can copy all resources from one collection to the other.

This can be used to switch the underlying storage and publication target.
Also the documentation has been enhanced to provide information of
how to use CDN target or move your resources to a remote storage.

``!instanceof`` filter operations in Eel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Checks if the value is not an instance of the operand.


Upgrading your Packages
-----------------------

Upgrading existing code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There haven't been API changes in Flow 3.1 which require your code to be adjusted. However, if you are upgrading from Flow
versions earlier than 3.0, you need to migrate your code. As with earlier changes to Flow that required code changes on
the user side we provide a code migration tool.

Given you have a Flow system with your (outdated) package in place you should run the following before attempting to fix
anything by hand::

 ./flow core:migrate --package-key Acme.Demo

The package key is optional, if left out it will work on all packages it finds (except for library packages and packages
prefixed with "TYPO3.*" or "Neos.*") - for the first run you might want to limit things a little to keep the overview,
though.

Make sure to run::

 ./flow help core:migrate

to see all the other helpful options this command provides.

Inside core:migrate
"""""""""""""""""""

The tool roughly works like this:

* Collect all code migrations from packages

* Collect all files from all packages (except *Framework* and
  *Libraries*) or the package given with ``--package-key``
* For each migration and package

  * Check for clean git working copy (otherwise skip it)
  * Check if migration is needed (looks for Migration footers in commit
    messages)
  * Apply migration and commit the changes

Afterwards you probably get a list of warnings and notes from the
migrations, check those to see if anything needs to be done manually.

Check the created commits and feel free to amend as needed, should
things be missing or wrong. The only thing you must keep in place from
the generated commits is the migration data in ``composer.json``. It is
used to detect if a migration has been applied already, so if you drop
it, things might get out of hands in the future.

Upgrading the database schema
-----------------------------

Upgrading the schema is done by running::

 ./flow doctrine:migrate

to update your database with any changes to the framework-supplied
schema.

Famous last words
-----------------

In a nutshell, running::

 ./flow core:migrate
 ./flow doctrine:migrationgenerate

in *Development Context*, padded with some manual checking and adjustments needs to be done.
That should result in a working package.

If it does not and you have no idea what to do next, please get in touch
with us.
