========
Flow 7.1
========

This release of Flow comes with some great new features, bugfixes and a lot of modernisation of the existing code base.
As usual, we worked hard to keep this release as backwards compatible as possible but some of the changes might require manual
adjustments. So please make sure to carefully read the upgrade instructions below.

************
New Features
************

!!! FEATURE: Enable URL Rewriting by default
--------------------------------------------

This flips the default behavior for the ``FLOW_REWRITEURLS`` environment
variable: If it is _not_ specified (or contains a value other than ``0``)
URL rewriting will be enabled.

Previously URL rewriting was enabled with a corresponding ``SetEnv`` configuration
for Apache.
For other servers and CLI a corresponding configuration (or a
``putenv('FLOW_REWRITEURLS=1')`` call at runtime) was required in order to
activate URL rewriting.

This could be a breaking change in case you relied on the previous behavior.
For example: Using the ``UriBuilder`` in CLI previously created URLs in the format ``/index.php/some/path``. Now it will lead to ``/some/path`` by default.
To re-establish the former behavior, the ``FLOW_REWRITEURLS`` can be set to 0 explicitly, for example via ``putenv('FLOW_REWRITEURLS=0');``.


FEATURE: Allow flushing caches by compiled classes
--------------------------------------------------

This adds a signal to the proxy compiler when classes have been compiled and a slot to the a new ``AnnotationsCacheFlusher`` class that checks the compiled classes for existing annotations and flushes matching configured caches.
This is required when annotations are used to change configuration, like the ``@Flow\\Route`` or ``@Flow\\Privilege`` annotations.

Related to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2421
Related to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2412


FEATURE: Make rendering of request in exception log configurable
----------------------------------------------------------------

With this it is possible to configure if the request data should be rendered into exception stack traces with the newly added configuration setting ``Neos.Flow.log.throwables.renderRequestInformation``.


FEATURE: Cli ProgressBar is public accessible
---------------------------------------------

The access modifier for ``getProgressBar()`` in ``ConsoleOutput.php`` is now public.

I'm using reflection to access the progressbar in a project to use symfonie's time estimation for a long running command. I think there shouldn't be much harm in just making ``getProgressBar()`` public.

Maybe this could go into the 7.1 release?

`Symfony Progressbar Docs <https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/console/helpers/progressbar.html>`_


FEATURE: Add fusion template support
------------------------------------

With this it is possible to specify the option ``--generate-fusion`` for the ``kickstart:actioncontroller`` command, which will generate ``.fusion`` files instead of Fluid templates and a ``Root.fusion`` in the according folders.

Depends on https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3255


FEATURE: Add rfc6750 bearer token
---------------------------------

Adds the bearer token class to extract a rfc6750 bearer token
from the HTTP header.


FEATURE: Introduce ability to add Fluid namespaces via configuration
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Added the ability to add Fluid namespaces via configuration.

By adding a new configuration option:
```
Neos:
  FluidAdaptor:
    namespaces:
```
This configuration is used, to add namespaces inside the ViewHelperResolver.

Add a default namespace in Settings.yaml and try to use its view helpers in any template, without including the namespace there.

Related issue: `#2375 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2375>`_


FEATURE: Expose array_values() in Array eelHelper
-------------------------------------------------

related to: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3287


********************
Upgrade Instructions
********************

This section contains instructions for upgrading your Flow **7.0**
based applications to Flow **7.1**.

In general just make sure to run the following commands:

To clear all file caches::

 ./flow flow:cache:flush --force

If you have additional cache backends configured, make sure to flush them too.

To apply core migrations::

  ./flow flow:core:migrate <Package-Key>

For every package you have control over (see `Upgrading existing code`_ below).

To validate/fix the database encoding, apply pending migrations and to (re)publish file resources::

 ./flow database:setcharset
 ./flow doctrine:migrate
 ./flow resource:publish

If you are upgrading from a lower version than 7.0, be sure to read the
upgrade instructions from the previous Release Notes first.

Upgrading your Packages
=======================

Upgrading existing code
-----------------------

There have been only two changes in Flow 7.1 which might require your attention. Still, if you are unsure, it's never
wrong to run migrations when updating.

Given you have a Flow system with your (outdated) package in place you should run the following before attempting to fix
anything by hand::

 ./flow core:migrate Acme.Demo

This will adjust the package code automatically and/or output further information.
Read the output carefully and manually adjust the code if needed.

To see all the other helpful options this command provides, make sure to run::

 ./flow help core:migrate

Also make sure to read about the `Potentially breaking changes`_ below.

Inside core:migrate
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The tool roughly works like this:

* Collect all code migrations from packages

* Collect all files from the specified package
* For each migration

  * Check for clean git working copy (otherwise skip it)
  * Check if migration is needed (looks for Migration footers in commit messages)
  * Apply migration and commit the changes

Afterwards you probably get a list of warnings and notes from the
migrations, check those to see if anything needs to be done manually.

Check the created commits and feel free to amend as needed, should
things be missing or wrong. The only thing you must keep in place from
the generated commits is the migration data in ``composer.json``. It is
used to detect if a migration has been applied already, so if you drop
it, things might get out of hands in the future.


****************************
Potentially breaking changes
****************************

Flow 7.1 comes with some breaking changes and removes several deprecated
functionalities, be sure to read the following changes and adjust
your code respectively. For a full list of changes please refer
to the change log.

!!! FEATURE: Enable URL Rewriting by default
--------------------------------------------

This flips the default behavior for the ``FLOW_REWRITEURLS`` environment
variable: If it is _not_ specified (or contains a value other than ``0``)
URL rewriting will be enabled.

Previously URL rewriting was enabled with a corresponding ``SetEnv`` configuration
for Apache.
For other servers and CLI a corresponding configuration (or a
``putenv('FLOW_REWRITEURLS=1')`` call at runtime) was required in order to
activate URL rewriting.

This could be a breaking change in case you relied on the previous behavior.
For example: Using the ``UriBuilder`` in CLI previously created URLs in the format ``/index.php/some/path``. Now it will lead to ``/some/path`` by default.
To re-establish the former behavior, the ``FLOW_REWRITEURLS`` can be set to 0 explicitly, for example via ``putenv('FLOW_REWRITEURLS=1');``.


TASK: Make ActionResponse::getContentType non-nullable
------------------------------------------------------

This removes the nullability of the getContentType() getter on the ActionResponse, which was only added to technically fit the possibility that the value is null without thinking about the API.
A content type of empty string is already enough to denote a "not set/unspecified" case and an additional null only makes the API more complex than needed.
This change is not technically breaking, even though it changes a return type, since the new return type is more strict. It could be breaking if you check for a null return value only without handling an empty string case. You should use the hasContentType() method before calling the getter.
